Bl
oCyNfo-Share: Blockchain based Cybersecurity
Information Sharing with Fine Grained Access
Control
Shahr
iar Badsha
D
ept. of Computer Science and Eng.
University of Nevada, Reno, NV , USA
sbadsha@unr.edu
I
man V akilinia
S
chool of Computing
University of North Florida, FL, USA
i.vakilinia@unf.edu
S
hamik Sengupta
D
ept. of Computer Science and Eng.
University of Nevada, Reno, NV , USA
ssengupta@unr.edu
Ab
stract—T o build a proactive cyber defense system, sharing
the cybersecurity information has been very popular by which
any organization can get more information about unknown and
new threats. Cybersecurity Information Exchange (CYBEX) is
one of the important platforms which has been playing an im-
portant role in implementing proactive cyber defense system by
allowing organizations sharing their cybersecurity information.
However, they are centralized and therefore they may suffer from
complete failure in case of any damage or accident. Moreover,
while sharing private information it lacks the mechanism of
providing rights to query organizations i.e., enabling the access
control over the shared sensitive information. Finally, non-
repudiation of the system does not exist i.e., there is no way
to track or keep the record what any organization is sharing
and it is necessary to keep the record in case anyone denies after
sharing false information. T o address these issues, in this paper
we propose blockchain based privacy preserving cybersecurity
information sharing using proxy re-encryption and attribute-
based encryption (BloCyNfo-Share) where the organization can
achieve ﬁne-grain access control by delegating which organization
can have the access to its cybersecurity information leveraging
the beneﬁts of blockchain technology. We conduct privacy and
experimental analysis of the proposed system and the ﬁndings
show that the model is private as well as efﬁcient.
K
eywords- Blockchain, Cybersecurity Information Ex-
change, Threat, Privacy, Access Control
I. I N
TRODUCTION
T
he complexity of cyber attacks is increasing, and there
is a growing demand for a proactive defense. Due to the
increasing rate of cyber threats, to effectively tackle the issues,
organizations face major difﬁculties. Although an organization
may build its own cybersecurity solution, it may not help to
understand better about the current cybersecurity landscape
well.
To address these issues, the CYBersecurity information
EXchange (CYBEX) [1]–[4] has been playing a crucial role
in implementing this proactive defense by sharing cyber threat
information with other parties. With the help of CYBEX, or-
ganizations can learn about potential cyber threats beforehand
and defend themselves against the attacks.
Also, various methods for sharing timely and actionable
cybersecurity information such as vulnerabilities or detection
T
his research is supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF), USA,
A ward #1739032
s
ignatures are paramount to enable the cooperative cyber-
defence [5]. Another popular approach which aim to facilitate
automatic cybersecurity information sharing is TAXII [6].
In traditional data sharing domain, the factors like pri-
vacy, security, and interoperability are very important. First,
the cybersecurity information often contains highly privacy-
sensitive data, therefore the leakage of those data could hurt
the reputation as well as ﬁnance of the organizations. Second,
there exists no decentralized cybersecurity information sharing
platform. However, the centralized framework has robustness
as well as security vulnerabilities such as: single-point-of-
failure as well as Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack.
A. Motivation
One of the main challenges with cybersecurity information
sharing is how to share the privacy-sensitive information with
other organizations or how to provide the access permissions
of privacy sensitive information to other organizations. To
address this access control problem, we proposed attribute
based sharing mechanism for cybersecurity information [7]
where we used CP-ABE (Ciphertext Policy Attribute based
Encryption) based mechanism to share the cybersecurity in-
formation providing rights and access to certain organizations.
We found that there are several areas that our previous scheme
can be improved by addressing some limitations. Firstly,
although CP-ABE potentially satisﬁes the requirements to
apply ﬁne grain access control with cryptographic methods
over data, it is essentially a group encryption, therefore any
individual organization can not be differentiated. Moreover in
their scheme, if any organization is revoked, its attributes are
also revoked which is not feasible in a large scale system.
Another issue with the existing cybersecurity information
sharing mechanism is that there is no way to check if
the system is non-repudiable. There is a chance that any
competitive organization requests data to any owner and the
owner organization may change the stored data with false
information to mislead the query organization. To address the
non-repudiability issue with data sharing services, Blockchain
has been useful since it brings transparency and no entities
can deny once they make any contribution in the system.
0
317
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 18:04:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

2
B
. Main Contributions
• W
e propose a Blockchain based privacy preserving
cybersecurity i nformation sharing with ﬁne grain ac-
cess control (BloCyNfo-Share) where the organizations
can share their CTI (Cyber Threat Intelligence) 1 da
ta
in privacy-preserving manner. Motivated from Attribute
based Proxy Re Encryption [8] mechanism, we speciﬁ-
cally apply the concept using Blockchain in the area of
cyber treat intelligence sharing among the organizations.
• T
he BloCyNfo-Share protocol improves the existing ac-
cess control based CTI sharing protocol [7] in several
ways: (1) unlike the [7], our scheme is not time bounded.
(2) The BloCyNfo-Share provides two stages of ﬁne grain
access control where in the ﬁrst stage, the owner can
choose the delegatee organization, for instance, which
organization should get the encrypted information or not,
no matter if the attributes match with the owners’ policy.
(3) Unlike the [7], we do not revoke the organizations’
identity if they want to leave the system, instead, we
revoke only their re-encryption key (which is used to
re-encrypt using a proxy server) which is more feasible
to scale the system in case the number of organizations
increases. (4) Because of using blockchain, the owner
organization is unable to change its information which is
already submitted to the storage and corresponding hash
is recorded into blockchain. In this way, the organizations
cannot harm other competitive organization in case they
want to change the ciphertext with false information.
• W
e provide the experimental analysis on computation
cost in terms of increasing number of attributes of the
organization and implementation results on Ethereum
Blockchain platform. The results show that the system
is efﬁcient in terms of both time consumption as well as
gas cost in Ethereum.
C. Organization
The rest of the paper is organized is as follows. The section
II and III describe the related work and preliminary studies
required for the proposed work respectively. The overall
system model is described in section IV and the proposed
methodology is described in section V . Section VI and VII
show the privacy and experimental analysis, and ﬁnally section
VIII concludes the paper with possible future work.
II. R
E
LATED WO
RK
A
. Cybersecurity Information Sharing
To improve the mechanism of cybersecurity information
sharing in terms of privacy [ ?], [9]–[12] as well as efﬁ-
ciency. The coalitional approaches for cybersecurity infor-
mation sharing and the underlying privacy challenges were
studied in [13]. The game theoretic aspects of cybersecurity
information sharing were presented in [14]. Despite their
advantage of providing the platform of sharing cyber threat
information, they suffer from some major issues like lack
1T
he terms “CTI” and “Cybersecurity information” are interchangeable for
the rest of the paper
of
privacy protection mechanism to protect sensitive cyber-
security information. To address the privacy protection of
shared cybersecurity information several works were proposed.
The scheme used group signature to share the cybersecurity
information [15] with privacy preservation by means of hiding
the identities of organizations. Later, the [4] proposed a model
as game between attackers and organizations to ﬁnd who wins
the game by ﬁnding the best strategy of the organziations
as well as the attacker. However the solution does not work
to protect underlying privacy sensitive information. Moreover,
the authors used the signature scheme [15] and access control
mechanism [7] to protect sensitive cybersecurity information
of any organization. In [7], the CTI information was shared
using only CP-ABE scheme where the central server who
manages the cryptographic and privacy preserving operations
for both owner and requester is trusted. There is no way to
keep a record of what information was shared and moreover,
in case of revoking any user or organization, the corresponding
attributes need to be revoked which is not an efﬁcient or
feasible solution.
B. Proxy Re-Encryption
The [16] proposed the concept of proxy re encryption, and
proposed the a bidirectional proxy re encryption method (
the delegation from Bob to Alice allows the re-encryption
from Alice to Boc). Since then different version of PRE [17],
[18] and speciﬁcally the attribute-based PRE [8], [19] were
proposed for different applications.
Recently, Manzoor et. al. [20] proposed blockchain based
proxy re-encryption which is close to our model in terms
of using blockchain with proxy re-encryption for secure IoT
(Internet of Things) data sharing. The main difference between
our proposed work and the [20] is that we use conditional
proxy re-encryption with ABE where [20] used only certiﬁcate
based proxy re-encryption.
C. ABE Access Control
There are plenty of works that have been done in the area of
access control [21], [22]. The CP-ABE [23], allows the data
owner to encrypt the data with consideration of access policy.
Users are only able to decrypt the ciphertext if and only if their
attributes can pass the access policy of the ciphertext. There
are single-authority [23] and multi-authority [24] CP-ABE
frameworks. In the single authority setting, the management
of attributes and their corresponding keys are handled by
one authority, while in the multi-authority CP-ABE systems,
multiple authorities manage the attributes. We are utilizing a
simple multi-authority CP-ABE system and the PRE [17] with
the help of Blockchain to authorize access to the sensitive
cybersecurity information.
III. P
R
ELIMINARIES
I
n this section, we discuss the key elements and techniques
behind the proposed BloCyNfo-Share protocol.
0
318
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 18:04:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

3
Fig.
1. System Model of BloCyNfo-Share
A
. Ciphertext Policy Attribute based PRE
A ciphertext policy based proxy re-encryption scheme [8]
consists of following functions.
• Setup(1k) → p
arams : On input a security parameter 1k,
the
setup algorithm outputs public parameter params.
• K
eyGen(params) → (pk, sk) On input user identity and
paramaeters, the key generation algorithm outputs public
and private key pairs pk, sk for user u.
• R
eKeyGen(skA, A,
pkB ) → r
kA→B O
n input skA f
rom
user A who is delegator, pkB w
ho is delegatee and
attributes A, the re-encryption key generation algorithm
generates a re-encryption key → rkA→B .
• E
nc1(pk, m) → c: On input a public key pk, a message
m, the ﬁrst level encryption generates ciphertext c.
• E
nc2(pk, m, P) → ¯c On input public key pk, message m
and access policy P, the second level encryption outputs
another ciphertext ¯c.
• R
eEnc(rkA→B , ¯cA) → cB :
On input re-encryotion key
rkA→B ,
a second level ciphertext under public key pkA
a
nd an access policy P, the re-encryption algorithm
generates ciphertext cB unde
r public key pkB if
the
attributes A satisﬁes access policy P.
• D
ec1(sk, c) → m
• D
ec2(sk, ¯c) → m
B. Blockchain and Ethereum
The blockchain is a peer to peer network that records all
the transactions in its distributed database [25]. Every node in
a blockchain holds same copy of the updated database. There
is no central authority in the blockchain, therefore there is
no single point of failure. Ethereum [26] is a open source
platform where decentralized application can be developed.
It supports the solidity language to develop smart contracts
which help to initiate any transactions upon veriﬁcation of
nodes or any given rules in the blockchain. The smart contracts
are developed using solidity and can be deployed in Ethereum.
Once deployed, it is automatically executed according to the
logic provided into it.
IV. S
Y
STEM MO
DEL OF BL
OCY
NFO-
SH
ARE
O
ur proposed model as shown in Figure 1, consists of
mainly three entities: the organizations ( Oi = O1,
O2,
..., ON )
,
a cloud server CS which works as a proxy and storage
server, and a trusted manager Tm who is responsible for key
generation and protocol initialization. The organizations share
their encrypted CTI into the cloud server, while storing the
hash of their data into the blockchain. Inquirer organization
QOk ∈
{QO1,
QO2,
..., QOM } se
nds request to the smart
contract for asking CTI information. The owner of the infor-
mation Oi,
generates the re-encryption key accordingly and
call the smart contract. Afterward CS obtains the key and
computes the new cypher text which can be decrypted by the
QOk.
Below we describe the entities roles:
• Or
ganization (Oi):
The Oi holds
the cybersecurity infor-
mation and share the CTIs with other query organizations
QO
k.
Note that, in our scheme, organizations can record
the requests for CTIs. This allows accounting the sharing
information and possibly reward and penalize organiza-
tions on cybersecurity information sharing platform.
• C
loud Server/ Proxy Server (CS): The proxy server is
any cloud server who stores the encrypted data for the
end users, and also performs re-encryption operations
to lessen the computation overhead for QO
k.
The CS
provides the hosting service for sharing CTI. We consider
CS is honest but curious, i.e. CS strictly follows the
protocol but it is curious about the sensitive data which
is shared by Oi.
• T
rusted Manager (Tm): The Tm is trusted entity who
is responsible for managing the keys in attribute based
encryption model, and also managing the proxy re-
encryption keys for organizations O
i.
Similar to some of
the existing work, it is common to use any trusted entity
to manage the keys for large number of organizations.
The CTI information of any organization may contain both
sensitive and non-sensitive information. The purpose of our
protocol is to share only the sensitive CTI information by
leveraging proxy re-encryption and CP-ABE scheme with
blockchain. Some examples of sensitive information are users’
private information, system conﬁguration, zero-day vulnerabil-
ity information (which can be used by attackers to exploit the
vulnerable systems). On the other hand, the information which
is not sensitive can be shared publicly.
The proposed system works as follows. First, the organi-
zations register to the blockchain network to be part of the
sharing process. The O
i inter
acts with CS via the Tm to save
and retrieve the encrypted CTI from the cloud database as
well as interacts with blockchain to save the hashes of the
information exchanged among the organizations. The QOk
s
hares its public key in the blockchain via the smart contract.
The Tm also shares the re-encryption key using a smart
contract. The proxy server reads re-encryption key for the
conversion. The storage of re-encryption key in the smart
contract prevents the malicious CS to present false information
as other entities having access to the blockchain can verify the
conversion of ciphertext as well. Upon receiving the ciphertext,
0
319
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 18:04:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

4
Fig.
2. Example of Access Tree
the Q
Ok is
able to decrypt if and only if the attributes match
with the access policy provided by the Oi.
V
. T H
E PRO
POSED BL
OCYNF
O-
SH
ARE SC
HEME
Be
low we show how one organization Oi c
an share its
encrypted information with QOk using
proxy re-encryption
along with CP-ABE leveraging the blockchain technology.
For instance, a data owner organization builds an access
tree as shown in Figure 2. The access tree depicts that,
any inquirer, who is a security manager from any of the
organizations among Financial, Retail, Health , located in
the US, the protocol of proxy re-encryption will only work
converting the encrypted data of owner under the public key
of the inquirer. According to the Figure 2, there are two
different inquirers security manager (SM) of an Academic
organization and a SM of an Health organization . Since the
SM of Academic Organization does not match with the access
policy, the proxy server is not able to re-encrypt the ciphertext
of Owner successfully. The detailed protocol is described in
the following section.
A. Protocol Description
Below, we show how a requester QO
k c
an get access
to encrypted information of owner organization Oi thr
ough
proxy re encryption with CP-ABE and blockchain. In this
protocol the trusted manager works for Oi by
performing all
cryptographic operations. To make the system design simpler,
the Tm has been used, otherwise the owner Oi c
an perform
all these operations by itself.
1) Setup: The Tm runs the setup to establish and publish
the public parameters for Oi of
the proposed scheme as below.
The Tm determines a bilinear map e : G0 × G0 →
GT ,
where G0 a
nd GT a
re cyclic groups of k bit prime
order p. Then select g which is a generator of G0.
A
cryptographic hash function H : {0, 1}∗ → G0.
Then
set P arams = ( g, e(g, g), H(.)). The public parameters is
stored using StoreP arams(params) and can be retrieved by
calling the smart contract RetreiveP arams() function. Using
blockchain storage guarantees the integrity of the params.
2) Registration: In the registration phase, the organizations
are registered in the framework by authorizing themselves. The
QO
k r
eceives its credentials from the credential authorities.
For instance, a retail store receives the “Retailer” attribute
from the retail-center authority. After veriﬁcation of QOk’
s
credentials, the corresponding credential authority issues a
signature indicating QOk ha
s a attribute al (
for example,
the “Retailer” {Security Manager , Located in US, Retailer }
attributes). When QOk r
equests for registration, it needs to
submit its own public key along with its credentials to the
smart contract by calling OrgRegistration (ID, pk, creds)
function. Then the credentials, organization’s ID and public
key are submitted to the blockchain. The Tm authenticates
the users identity and assigns appropriate attributes set for
the QOk,
then adding the users account address to the set
of authorized users in the smart contract.
3) KeyGeneration: The Oi r
uns the keygeneration algo-
rithm as below to generate its own key pair pki,
ski.
Similarly
other organizations (requester and owners) generate their own
key pairs.
Choose x
u,
αu,
βu ∈ Zp a
nd set ( pku =
(yu = gxu ,
hu =
gβu ,
wu = e(g
, g)αu ),
sku =
(xu,
αu,
βu))
, where u repre-
sents any entity in the system.
4) Re-key-generation: In this step the Oi ge
nerates a re
encryption key for query organization QOk a
ccording to its
role. Note that, the set of attributes were decided in the
registration phase for QO
k.
The query organizations signs
its own public key and it is uploaded on the blockchain
through calling the smart contract RegP ubkey(pk) function.
The re encryption key is derived using the public key of
query organization which is veriﬁed in blockchain, then the
generated re encryption key is signed by the O
i a
nd stored
in the CS by calling the smart contract StoreReK ey(rk).
By this contract, the hash of these keys are also stored for
further veriﬁcation process. To generate re encryption key
the O
i pe
rforms as follows. Let skOi =
(xOi ,
αOi ,
βOi )
a
nd pkQ
Ok =
(yQ
Ok = gxQ
Ok ,
hQ
Ok = gβQ
Ok ,
wQ
Ok =
e(g
, g)αQ
Ok ).
Pick r
, ri ∈ Zp w
here i = A ,
..., A  a
nd set the re encryption
key as rkOi→Q
Ok =
(k = (yαA
β gr )1/
βOi )
F
or all i in A, ki1 = gr · H(i)ri ,
ki2 = gri .
Note that,
the re encryption key is denoted as the role certiﬁcate for
query organization. The proxy server CS maintains a lookup
table where each entry is a query organization. For instance
one entry is (X
ba
nk ,
rkyr
etail →Xb
ank ),
which means the re
encryption key rkyor
gA →Xor
gB is
stored corresponding to
organization Xo
rgB .
5) Encryption: E
nc1(pk, m): Let, pk = ( y = gx,
h =
gβ ,
w = e(g, g)α),
now
c = (m · e(w  ,
g)s · e(w  ,
y)s = e(w  ,
g)s·x) (
1)
6) Data Storing : To outsource the sensitive cybersecurity
data to cloud, the Oi de
termines the access policy P as
shown in ﬁgure 2, then performs below step followed by
sending the ciphertext to CS. Moreover, Oi c
alculates the
hash of ciphertext and add it to the blockchain by calling
HashCT I (c). This allows the veriﬁcation of the CTI data in
the future. Let pk = (y = g
x,
h = gβ ,
w = e(g, g)α) a
nd P is
access tree which is T   .
A polynomial qn is
selected for each
of the nodes n in access tree T   .
For n, the degree dn is
set,
0
320
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 18:04:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

5
so
that dn = tn − 1.
Here the tn de
notes threshold of a node
n. It sets qn(
0) = s. Then it selects dR w
hich is other random
points for deﬁning qR
¯c = T   ,
C = m · ws,
C  = hs,
l =
1 to L : (Cl,1 = gql (0
),
Cl,2 = H(att(l)ql (
0))
) (2)
7) Data Access by Query organization : When the QOk
r
equests to retrieve an encrypted data record from the CS, the
CS ﬁrst retrieves the corresponding re encryption key for QOk
f
rom the blockchain using smart contract, then veriﬁes if the
re encryption key belongs to the requester by calling the smart
contract V erify (pk). By this contract the Oi c
hecks whether
the hash of requester is matched in the lookup table. if so,
then re encryption key corresponding to the requester can be
retrieved form the lookup table. performs following step of re
encryption of the ciphertext. ¯c.
Let ¯cA =
(T   ,
C, C  , {Cl,1,
Cl,2}i=
1,2...,L) a
nd
rkA→B =
(k, ki
,1,
Ki
,21,2,...,A).
The re encryption algorithm
is a recursive process.
ReEncNd n(
¯cA,
rkA→B )
= Fn (
3)
where
Fn = e(kz1,
Cn1)
e(kz2,
Cn2) = e(gr H(z)rz ,
gqn (
0))
e(grz ,
H (z)qn(0
))
= e(g
, g)r
.qn (
0)
(
4)
When n is a non leaf node, the algorithm
ReEncNd n(
¯cA,
rkA→B ) w
orks as follows. For each
child node v of n, it calls ReEncNd n(
¯cA,
rkA→B ) a
nd
stores the output as Fv.
Let Sn be
an arbitrary tn siz
ed set of
child nodes v such that Fv  =⊥.
Otherwise, let the lagrangian
coefﬁcient ∆i
,s f
or i ∈ Zp a
nd a set of S elements in Zp be
∆i
,s(x)
=  
j∈S
,j =i
x−j
i−j a
nd we compute
Fn =  
v∈Sn
F ∆i ,S 0
n
v
w
here, i = index(v), S  
n =
(index(v) : v ∈ Sn)
So,
Fn =
 
v∈Sn
(e(g
, g)r
.qv (
0))
δ(
i,
S n
0
)
=
 
v∈Sn
(e(g
, g)r
.qn (i))
δ(
i
,S n
0
)
= e(g
, g)r .
qn(
0)
(5)
In this way, ReEncNd r
t(
¯cA,
rkA→B ) f
or the root node
rt can be computed. If T   (A)
= 1 then we get
ReEncNd r
t(
¯cA,
rkA→B )
= e(g, g)r
.qr
t (0
) = e(g
, g)r
.s = Fr
t
N
ext, the re encryption algorithm computes
e(k, C  )/Fr
t = e(
(yαA
B gr)1/βA ,
hs
A)/e(g
, g)r
.s
= e(yB ,
g)s
.α−A = w − As
.xB
(
6)
Finally, set cB =
(c1 = C = m
.ws
A.
c2 = wS
.xB
A )
N
ote that, storing the hash of ciphertext and the re-
encryption key in the blockchain allows QOk to
verify the CS
operations, therefore CS can not collude with other entities to
provide an invalid CTI information to QOk.
8) D
ecryption: The decryption is performed as follows by
the query organization as follows. Let ¯c = ( T   ,
C, C  .
..), the
decryption of second level ciphertext is done by
m = C/e(g, C  )α
/β−1
(
7)
B. Revocation
In [7] we presented that the cybersecurity exchange frame-
work using the CP-ABE is time bounded which is variant of
[23]. As stated by [8] on the limitations of time bounded CP-
ABE, the decryption key can work for certain time. Therefore,
the cybersecurity exchange mechanism of [7] will suffer from
real time revocation of decryption capabilities. Moreover, in
[7], the organizations has to obtain new access attributes for
new program and if any organization is revoked, the attributes
are also revoked. Such methods may nit be scalable for
organisation revocation in encryption of cloud data since the
revoked entity should be in the ciphertext and regarded as
a distinct attribute. The problem grows when the number of
organization raises. On the other hand, using the proposed
mechanism, the re-encryption key can be erased to revoke any
organization instead of revoking the organizations’ attributes.
VI. P
R
IVACY AN
ALYSIS
A
ccording to the protocol, there is no pre-sharing of secret
keys. The Oi is
able to compute rkOi →QOk using
only the
skOi a
nd pkQ
Ok ;
which means the query organizations does
not need to share its secret key with Oi or
any other party
in order to perform proxy re-encryption. Moreover, there is
no way for the CS to decrypt the ciphertext that is stored in
its storage. The re-encryption key rkOi →Q
Ok r
eceived from
Oi i
s yα
β gr )1/
β .
From this message, it is computationally
hard to perform discrete logarithm to ﬁnd α and β which
are secret keys. Since the CS cannot ﬁnd the secret keys, it
is not able to determine the sensitive information encrypted
by the Oi.
The CS is also unable to ﬁnd the secret key
of QOk.
While re-encrypting the ciphertext, the CS only
uses the re-encryption key received from the Oi a
nd the
ciphertext ¯COi of Oi.
We have already discussed earlier that
from the re-encryption key the CS is unable to ﬁnd secret
keys. Moreover, the ciphertext encrypted under the public key
of Oi is
semantically secure, i.e., it is also computationally
hard to ﬁnd the message encrypted from the ciphertext. Upon
receiving the re-encrypted ciphertext, only the QOk is
able to
decrypt it as it was encrypted by the proxy server using the
re-encryption key.
VII. P E
RFORMANCE AN
ALYSIS
I
n our experimental setup we used Ethereum as a blocckahin
platform and some of the computations are carried ofﬂine
(mostly encryotions and key generations). The ofﬂine compu-
tations are carried out using java (the crypographic algorithms
are implemented in Bounty Castle Java Library). The main
idea behind using both ofﬂine and online is to keep blockchain
platform as light as possible and its feasible and practical that
users usually perform the encryption locally. The storing and
communication of the data is stored in blockchain so that the
system becomes tamper proof and veriﬁable. Using the chain
0
321
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 18:04:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

6
of
hashes of transactions among the entities, later we can
verify the transactions. Below, ﬁrst we discuss the computation
overhead of ofﬂine computations and then we will discuss the
gas cost of our experiment in ethereum.
For the ofﬂine computations, we have utilized cpabe toolkit
(http://acsc.cs.utexas.edu/cpabe/) for the implementation of
CP-ABE in our framework. This toolkit uses PBC library
and performs on a 160-bit elliptic curve group based on
the supersingular curve y2 = x3 + x o
ver a 512-bit ﬁnite
ﬁeld. In the registration phase, we apply the ECDSA digital
signature for its efﬁciency. We have implemented ECDSA
through OpenSSL library (https://www.openssl.org). ECDSAs
elliptic curve is over a prime ﬁeld of n = 256 bits. In
the registration phase, O
i r
eceives credentials from attribute
authority and then present them to Tm. Credentials are ECDSA
signatures. ECDSA signing operation takes 0.528 (ms) and
ECDSA veriﬁcation takes 0.512 (ms). The setup phase takes
9 ms to generate a public and secret key for the owner
organization O
i.
Once the QOk se
nds the request to Oi it
takes
0.1 ms to generate the re-encryption key for the Tm which is
very efﬁcient and less overhead for the organizations of Tm to
manage. The important complexity of the system is perform-
ing the data storing operation which involves the encryption
with the policy and data access by query organization which
involves re-encryption by the proxy server. Note that both of
these operations depends on the number of attributes or the
leaf nodes of the access tree. Precisely the overhead is linear
to the number of leaf nodes of the access tree.
To evaluate the performance we built a set of access condi-
tions where the access trees are constructed with a combination
of AND and OR gates. Some of the access trees consist of all
AND gates so that all the leaf nodes are visited and used to
perform the re-encryption by the proxy server. We conduct 10
runs for each experiment and record the average result. As
the results depicted in Figure 3, the re-encryption algorithm
takes about 2.5 seconds for 100 attributes where the are key
generation takes only 0.5 seconds. Therefore it is clear that the
time taken by the protocol is practical as it is highly unlikely to
have any large number of attributes for an organization which
is more than 100.
We have used the most popular Ethereum implementation,
Go Ethereum (geth) which is written in Golang. Table 1 shows
the smart contract functions and their gas cost. Recall that
at the setup phase, the functions StoreP arams() stores the
public parameters and using RetrieveP arams() an user can
retrieve the public parameters when needed. These functions
also stores the hashes of the parameters so that later one
can verify the integrity efﬁciently. These functions takes only
945 and 854 gas units which are equivalent to 0.0002 USD
only. In the registration phase, the OrgReg () function is used
to register a new organization using its ID, public key and
attributes which takes 952 gas units. In the re encryption gen-
eration phase, the query organization sign its own public key
and uploads to the blockchain using RegP ubkey() function
which takes about 961 gas units. Once the re-encryption key is
generated it is stored in the blockchain using StoreReK ey()
function which consumes about 924 gas units. After the ﬁrst
Fi
g. 3. Performance Result
le
vel encryption, the data owner store the hash of encryption
by calling HashCT I () which takes 859 gas units. Once an or-
ganization requests for re encryption it needs to send the public
key if it claims to have re encryption key stored in blockchain
before. In this case, it sends the public key to blockchain
and smart contract veriﬁes if the requester’s re encryption is
already in lookup table by calling V erif y() contract which
takes about 847 gas units. Our experimental methods can be
extended providing more smart contract functions, however,
for this work we limit our smart contract functions within
above discussed phases. From table 1 it is also clear that our
protocol consumes very negligible amount of gas units and
total cost of our protocol is not more than 0.001 USD, where
1 ether = 10
9 G
wei.
T
ABLE I
GA
S COST OF BL
OCYNF
O-S
HARE PROTOCOL
F
unction Ga
s Used E
ther Cost U
SD
St
oreP arams() 945 9.4
5−7 0.0
002
R
etrieveP arams() 854 8.5
4 × 10−7 0.0
0018
O
rgRegistration () 952 9.5
2 × 10−7 0.0
002
R
egP ubKey() 961 9.6
1 × 10−7 0.0
002
S
troreReKey () 924 9.2
4 × 10−7 0.0
002
H
ashCT I() 859 8.5
9 × 10−7 0.0
0018
V
erif y() 847 8.4
7 × 10−7 0.0
0018
V
III. C O
NCLUSION AND FU
TURE WO
RK
I
n this paper, we propose BloCynFo-Share for cyberse-
curity information sharing among various organizations in
a privacy-preserving manner using blockchain based frame-
work with ﬁne grain access control mechanism. To ensure
the tamper-proof and non-repudiation, the blockchain has
been used so that the record can be stored as a chained
hash in the blockchain and can be audited and trace-back
in case any malicious activity happens. More speciﬁcally,
because of blockchain, any organization cannot change the
encrypted information which is stored in the cloud. Also, any
requester organization can not deny that it did not receive
the information since all the transactions are stored in the
blockchain. Also, because of using proxy re-encryption and
attribute-based encryption the owner organization can select
which organization can get access to the encrypted information
shared by it. On the other side, because of using proxy re-
encryption even the attributes match with the policy, the owner
0
322
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 18:04:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

7
or
ganization can limit the access of requester by not generating
the proxy key for re-encryption. The privacy analysis and
performance results show that there is no information leaked
while exchanging the cryptographic parameters and encrypted
values, and the proposed system is efﬁcient as well as scalable.
In future we will explore homomorphic based cryptography to
perform private analytics [27]–[29] besides the access control
mechanism to build fast and secure proactive cyber defense.
R
E
FERENCES
[1] D. K. Tosh, M. Molloy, S. Sengupta, C. A. Kamhoua, and K. A. Kwiat,
“Cyber-investment and cyber-information exchange decision modeling,”
in 2015 IEEE 17th International Conference on High Performance
Computing and Communications. IEEE, 2015, pp. 1219–1224.
[2] D. Tosh, S. Sengupta, C. Kamhoua, K. Kwiat, and A. Martin, “An evolu-
tionary game-theoretic framework for cyber-threat information sharing,”
in Communications (ICC), 2015 IEEE International Conference on .
IEEE, 2015, pp. 7341–7346.
[3] D. K. Tosh, S. Sengupta, S. Mukhopadhyay, C. A. Kamhoua, and K. A.
Kwiat, “Game theoretic modeling to enforce security information shar-
ing among ﬁrms,” in Cyber Security and Cloud Computing (CSCloud),
2015 IEEE 2nd International Conference on . IEEE, 2015, pp. 7–12.
[4] I. V akilinia, D. K. Tosh, and S. Sengupta, “3-way game model for
privacy-preserving cybersecurity information exchange framework,” in
Military Communications Conference (MILCOM), MILCOM 2017-2017
IEEE. IEEE, 2017, pp. 829–834.
[5] D. E. Denning, “Framework and principles for active cyber defense,”
Computers & Security , vol. 40, pp. 108–113, 2014.
[6] R. A. Martin, “Making security measurable and manageable,” in Military
Communications Conference, 2008. MILCOM 2008. IEEE . IEEE, 2008,
pp. 1–9.
[7] I. V akilinia, D. K. Tosh, and S. Sengupta, “Attribute based sharing in
cybersecurity information exchange framework,” in 2017 International
Symposium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommuni-
cation Systems (SPECTS) . IEEE, 2017, pp. 1–6.
[8] Y . Yang, H. Zhu, H. Lu, J. Weng, Y . Zhang, and K.-K. R. Choo, “Cloud
based data sharing with ﬁne-grained proxy re-encryption,” Pervasive and
Mobile Computing , vol. 28, pp. 122–134, 2016.
[9] A. Kelarev, X. Yi, S. Badsha, X. Y ang, L. Rylands, and J. Seberry, “A
multistage protocol for aggregated queries in distributed cloud databases
with privacy protection,” Future Generation Computer Systems , vol. 90,
pp. 368–380, 2019.
[10] A. Thakkar, S. Badsha, and S. Sengupta, “Game theoretic approach
applied in cybersecurity information exchange framework,” in 2020
IEEE 17th Annual Consumer Communications & Networking Confer-
ence (CCNC) , 2020.
[11] S. Badsha, X. Yi, I. Khalil, and E. Bertino, “Privacy preserving user-
based recommender system,” in 2017 IEEE 37th International Confer-
ence on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS) . IEEE, 2017, pp.
1074–1083.
[12] S. Badsha, X. Yi, I. Khalil, D. Liu, S. Nepal, and K.-Y . Lam, “Privacy
preserving user based web service recommendations,” IEEE Access ,
vol. 6, pp. 56 647–56 657, 2018.
[13] I. V akilinia and S. Sengupta, “A coalitional game theory approach
for cybersecurity information sharing,” in Military Communications
Conference, MILCOM 2017-2017 IEEE . IEEE, 2017, pp. 237–242.
[14] D. Tosh, S. Sengupta, C. A. Kamhoua, and K. A. Kwiat, “Establishing
evolutionary game models for cyber security information exchange
(cybex),” Journal of Computer and System Sciences , vol. 98, pp. 27–52,
2018.
[15] I. V akilinia, D. K. Tosh, and S. Sengupta, “Privacy-preserving cyberse-
curity information exchange mechanism,” in 2017 International Sympo-
sium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommunication
Systems (SPECTS) . IEEE, 2017, pp. 1–7.
[16] M. Blaze, G. Bleumer, and M. Strauss, “Divertible protocols and atomic
proxy cryptography,” in International Conference on the Theory and
Applications of Cryptographic Techniques . Springer, 1998, pp. 127–
144.
[17] G. Ateniese, K. Fu, M. Green, and S. Hohenberger, “Improved proxy
re-encryption schemes with applications to secure distributed storage,”
ACM Transactions on Information and System Security (TISSEC) , vol. 9,
no. 1, pp. 1–30, 2006.
[18] R. H. Deng, J. Weng, S. Liu, and K. Chen, “Chosen-ciphertext secure
proxy re-encryption without pairings,” in International Conference on
Cryptology and Network Security . Springer, 2008, pp. 1–17.
[19] K. Liang, M. H. Au, J. K. Liu, W. Susilo, D. S. Wong, G. Y ang,
Y . Y u, and A. Y ang, “A secure and efﬁcient ciphertext-policy attribute-
based proxy re-encryption for cloud data sharing,” Future Generation
Computer Systems , vol. 52, pp. 95–108, 2015.
[20] A. Manzoor, M. Liyanage, A. Braeken, S. S. Kanhere, and M. Ylianttila,
“Blockchain based proxy re-encryption scheme for secure iot data
sharing,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.02276 , 2018.
[21] D. F. Ferraiolo, R. Sandhu, S. Gavrila, D. R. Kuhn, and R. Chan-
dramouli, “Proposed nist standard for role-based access control,” ACM
Transactions on Information and System Security (TISSEC) , vol. 4, no. 3,
pp. 224–274, 2001.
[22] S. Chakraborty and I. Ray, “Trustbac: integrating trust relationships into
the rbac model for access control in open systems,” in Proceedings of the
eleventh ACM symposium on Access control models and technologies .
ACM, 2006, pp. 49–58.
[23] J. Bethencourt, A. Sahai, and B. Waters, “Ciphertext-policy attribute-
based encryption,” in 2007 IEEE symposium on security and privacy
(SP’07). IEEE, 2007, pp. 321–334.
[24] M. Chase, “Multi-authority attribute based encryption,” in Theory of
cryptography conference. Springer, 2007, pp. 515–534.
[25] I. V akilinia, S. V akilinia, S. Badsha, E. Arslan, and S. Sengupta, “Pooling
approach for task allocation in the blockchain based decentralized
storage network,” in 15th International Conference on Network and
Service Management. IEEE , 2019.
[26] G. Wood, “Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction
ledger,” Ethereum project yellow paper , vol. 151, pp. 1–32, 2014.
[27] S. Badsha, X. Yi, and I. Khalil, “A practical privacy-preserving rec-
ommender system,” Data Science and Engineering , vol. 1, no. 3, pp.
161–177, 2016.
[28] S. Badsha, I. V akilinia, and S. Sengupta, “Privacy preserving cyber
threat information sharing and learning for cyber defense,” in 2019 IEEE
9th Annual Computing and Communication Workshop and Conference
(CCWC). IEEE, 2019, pp. 0708–0714.
[29] S. Badsha, X. Yi, I. Khalil, D. Liu, S. Nepal, E. Bertino, and K. Lam,
“Privacy preserving location-aware personalized web service recommen-
dations,” IEEE Transactions on Services Computing , pp. 1–1, 2018.
0
323
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 18:04:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 