IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2026 235
Fair Data Trading on Blockchain Through Veriﬁable
Proxy Re-Encryption
Ziyang Ji , Jie Zhang ,K aL o kM a n , Steven Guan, and Nguyen Van Huynh , Member, IEEE
Abstract—Data trading has become a fundamental category
of commerce in the current digital era, bringing along sub-
stantial opportunities for economic activities. The emergence of
blockchain facilitates decentr alized data trading, empowering
users to maintain complete control over their own data and
enabling direct peer-to-peer transactions. However, while users
possess complete control over the ir data product and asset in a
decentralized trading environment, they must take responsibility
for their behaviors and face the consequences of dishonest
behaviors either from themselves or counterparties. Therefore,
behavior fairness problems arise, such as the seller refusing
to deliver the correct data product after receiving the money
and the buyer failing to pay the outstanding balance after
receiving the data product. This article addresses these issues by
proposing a decentralized fair data trading ecosystem leveraging
the capability of cryptography and smart contracts. A novel
veriﬁable proxy re-encryption (VPRE) scheme is designed, which
introduces the veriﬁability of re-encryption keys into the original
PRE schemes. The scheme is implem ented using smart contracts,
which ensures that trading can succeed if and only if the data
seller provides a valid re-encryption key and the buyer pays
the correct amount of money. Furthermore, experiments are
conducted to evaluate the proposed ecosystem in terms of trading
fairness, security, and cost. The results show that the proposed
scheme can effectively terminate transactions involving fairness
violations with affordable costs ranging from 39 276 Gwei to
296 983 Gwei. Without our solution, these unfair transactions
will proceed and consume 77 301 Gwei to 754 447 Gwei gas fees.
Index Terms—Blockchain, data trading, proxy re-encryption,
trading fairness.
Received 26 June 2024; revised 18 April 2025 and 26 May 2025; accepted
5 June 2025. Date of publication 10 July 2025; date of current version 6
February 2026. This work was supported in part by the Research Development
Fund at Xi’an Jiaotong-Liverpool University under Grant RDF-21-02-014,
in part by the Teaching Development Fund under Grant TDF2223-R25-207,
in part by the XJTLU Artiﬁcial Intelligence University Research Centre, in
part by Jiangsu Province Engineerin g Research Centre of Data Science and
Cognitive Computation, in part by Suzhou Industrial Park AI Innovation
Platform under Grant YZCXPT2022103, and in part by Suzhou Municipal
Key Laboratory for Intelligent Virtu al Engineering under Grant SZS2022004.
(Corresponding author: Jie Zhang.)
Ziyang Ji, Jie Zhang, Ka Lok Man, and Steven Guan are with the School of
Advanced Technology, Xi’an Jiaotong-Liverpool University, Suzhou 215123,
China (e-mail: Ziyang.Ji18@student.xjtlu.edu.cn; Jie.Zhang01@xjtlu.edu.cn;
Ka.Man@xjtlu.edu.cn; Steven.Guan@xjtlu.edu.cn).
Nguyen Van Huynh is with the Department of Electrical Engineering
and Electronics, University of Liverpool, L69 3GJ Liverpool, U.K (e-mail:
Huynh.Nguyen@liverpool.ac.uk).
Digital Object Identiﬁ er 10.1109/TCSS.2025.3579478
I. I NTRODUCTION
D
ATA is increasingly being recognized as a signiﬁcant
asset, contributing immense value daily. Accompanied
by the continuous generation of vast amounts of data, data
trading platforms, which facilitate the discoveries and trans-
actions of data products, are also experiencing rapid growth.
The worldwide data marketplace platform market is expected
to achieve 5739 US million dollars by 2030, with an anticipated
compound annual growth rate of 25% [1]. A new trend in the
data trading industry is a decentralized trading platform empow-
ered by blockchain technology. So far, several blockchain-based
decentralized trading systems have been proposed to overcome
the shortcomings of centralized platforms and promote the data
economy [2], [3], [4].
While decentralized data trading platforms based on
blockchain surpass centralized ones in transparency,
consistency, and traceability, t hey face the more difﬁcult
challenge of behavior fairness [5], [6], [7]. Speciﬁcally,
violations of behavior fairness in data trading are caused by
dishonest behavior of data sellers or buyers, either in intended
or unintended manners. For example, a data seller may provide
wrong or incomplete data after receiving money from a buyer,
and a data buyer may refuse to pay the requested money after
receiving the correct data from a seller. These problems can
be addressed easily in a centralized platform where the trusted
center keeps the data and money between the seller and buyer
during trading procedures. However, there is no such trusted
center on decentralized platforms.
To handle behavior fairness problems in decentralized data
trading systems, several pioneering solutions have been pro-
posed. On the one hand, some studies focus on the approach that
alleviates problems by mitigating the loss caused by the unfair
behavior of buyers[8], [9]. The idea is to split the data into small
units and sell one unit at a time so that only a tiny portion of
the data is exposed to cheating buyers. Although this method
can somewhat alleviate the problem, it is of no avail to behavior
fairness problems caused by dishonest sellers. A more effective
method to address the cheating behavior of buyers is through
proxy re-encryption (PRE), which can transform the ciphertext
of one user into that of another user [10], [11]. Through PRE,
the seller outsources or provides the encrypted version of data
in the ﬁrst place and generates a re-encryption key (rekey)
for paid buyers once the seller receives the correct amount
of money. Similar to the segregation approach, this method
still cannot address behavior fairness issues caused by cheating
2329-924X © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, includi ng rights for text and data mining, and train ing of artiﬁcial intelligen ce and similar technologi es.
Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

236 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2026
sellers. On the other hand, existing methods to address cheating
sellers adopt after-the-fact mechanisms, including penalty solu-
tions [12], [13] and reputation solutions [14], [15], [16]. These
postevent solutions can help reduce behavior fairness violations
caused by both the seller and the buyer. However, they cannot
make up for victims’ losses.
To thoroughly address the behavior fairness problem caused
by both the seller and the buyer sides, this article proposes a
new method that terminates the trading process once dishonest
behaviors happen and thereby prevents the losses of the honest
side. Speciﬁcally, we propose a veriﬁable proxy re-encryption
(VPRE) scheme by introducing a re-encryption veriﬁcation
mechanism into the basic PRE [17] scheme and implementing
it via smart contracts, and then apply it into a decentralized
data trading system to guarantee behavior fairness. In the VPRE
scheme, before the re-encryption key is revealed and the money
transfer is executed, the seller has to submit a commitment
of having generated the re-encryption key for the buyer. The
buyer then needs to compute a veriﬁcation key to check the
commitment’s correctness. If both the re-encryption key and
veriﬁcation key are correct, the veriﬁcation process will suc-
ceed, leading to the disclosure of the re-encryption key and
the successful completion of the money transfer. Otherwise,
the veriﬁcation will fail, and the data trading process will be
terminated with a few computational cost losses.
The security of the system is evaluated via MythX [18],
which is widely recognized as an advanced Ethereum smart
contract security audit tool to assess security vulnerabilities and
ﬂaws during the smart contract development process. Secure
vulnerabilities were not found. Inaddition, to evaluate the func-
tionality and performance of the new system, we develop a
prototype and deploy the smart contract on Remix VM. Five
test scenarios with a total of ten test cases involving behavior
fairness are deﬁned and tested via a set of experiments. The
results show that the proposed system can effectively address
the behavior fairness problems by identifying violations and
terminating trading activities, with 39 276 Gwei to 296 983
Gwei of gas cost. These gas fees are used for intermediate op-
erations. Notably, without our method, these trading operations
involving unfair behaviors will be completed and consume gas
fees ranging from 77 301 Gwei to 754 447 Gwei, which means
that not only is the problem unaddressed, but also more gas fees
are consumed.
II. R
ELATED WORK
This section reviews existing approaches to the behavior fair-
ness problem in decentralized data trading and representative
PRE schemes for decentralized data sharing.
In a decentralized data trading environment, both data sellers
and buyers may engage in unfair practices, either intentionally
or unintentionally. Below, we will review existing mechanisms
aimed at regulating these unfair actions of participants.
A. Solutions to Fairness Violation Caused by Data Buyers
The primary form of fairness violations by buyers is refusing
to make payment after receiving the product. To mitigate losses
caused by these cheating buyers, Delgado-Segura et al. [8]
divide the data product into mu ltiple small portions and reveal
just a part of the data product before the completion of the
trading. Bajoudah, Dong, and Missier [19] propose an IoT data
trading scheme that involves setting multip le checkpoints to
partition the entire stream data pr oduct into saleable intervals.
The settlement necessitates the receipt provi ded by the data
buyer at the end of each trading interval. If the buyer fraudu-
lently refuses to conﬁrm the settlement after receiving the data,
the seller bears losses limited to that speciﬁc section of data
rather than the entire data product.
The above data segmentation strategies can mitigate the
seller’s losses but cannot entirely eliminate them. Another ap-
proach to the problem of cheating buyers is based on the com-
bination of smart contracts and PRE. Lu et al. propose a fair
decentralized data trading system that utilizes searchable proxy
re-encryption to ensure that the data product meets the desired
speciﬁcations [10]. In this system, the buyer must deposit in
advance to obtain the re-encryption key. This design prevents
the buyer from denying the su itability of the purchased data
and ensures that access to the data product is granted only
after payment has been made. Similarly, Gao et al. propose
a blockchain-based digital rights trading scheme that requires
buyers to deposit funds before initiating a transaction[11].A f t e r
that, the seller generates the re-encryption key for buyers who
have deposited money to the smart contract and then submits the
re-encryption key to obtain the money. These approaches can
address unfair behavior caused by buyers. Unfortunately, they
do not have any mechanism to check whether the re-encryption
key submitted by the seller is the correct one. Therefore, buy-
ers can violate beha vior fairness by submitting incorrect re-
encryption keys.
B. Solutions to Fairness Violation Caused by Data Sellers
The primary method for managing sellers’ behavior centers
on verifying the traded objects. One strategy involves water-
marking [20]. Liu et al. [21] explore the method for electricity
data, which helps buyers ascertain the seller’s ownership and
provision, although it does not preclude tampering with the
source data. Another approach, designed by Xue et al. [22] for
fair medical data trading, uses signatures from trusted parties
like hospitals to guarantee data authenticity and accuracy. Be-
sides, Chenli et al. [23] outline a mechanism where the data
product’s decryption key is divided into two components. The
buyer possesses only one component, while a smart contract
is implemented to govern the veriﬁcation process and subse-
quent release of the second component to regulate the seller’s
behavior. Lu et al. [24] link the payment received by the seller
directly to the quality of the provided dictionary matrix, which
is veriﬁable by the buyer through the accuracy of data recon-
struction. Li et al.[25] incorporate validators and data sampling
for conﬁrmation of data validity.
There are other methods focusin g on utilizing postevent so-
lutions, such as penalty mechanisms or reputation systems. A
typical penalty is imposing ﬁnes on the cheating sellers. This
is regulated by designing a seller deposit mechanism and intro-
ducing a market manager to forcibly transfer the data seller’s
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

JI et al.: FAIR DATA TRADING ON BLOCKCHAIN THROUGH VERIFIABLE PROXY RE-ENCRYPTION 237
TABLE I
COMPARISON WITH EXISTING SOLUTIONS TO THE FAIRNESS ISSUE IN DECENTRALIZED DATA TRADING
Approach Addressing Buyers’ Vio lation Addressing Sellers’ Violation
Data segmentation strategies [8], [9] ✓ ×
PRE + Smart contract solutions [10], [11] ✓ ×
Penalty mechanism [12], [26], [27], [29] × ✓
Reputation/Reward mechanism [14], [15] × ✓
This work ✓✓
deposit to the buyer in cases where the data cannot be decrypted
accurately [12].A b l ae ta l .[26] handle ﬁnal key disputes via
online arbitration using smart contracts, which check the key’s
validity and penalize the cheating seller. Similarly, Lin et al.
[27] propose OBFP scheme to address the claim on the smart
contract when the seller provides a wrong data. Another puni-
tive measure is to reduce the award or proﬁt of cheating sellers.
In [28], data sellers rely on an artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) agent to
sell their data products. Inaccurate data hampers the AI agent’s
ability to execute properly, affec ting the seller’s potential for
proﬁtability. Consequently, sellersare inclined to behave fairly.
A more severe penalty is expe lling the cheating sellers from
the trading market. Hu et al. [13] propose a method to remove
cheating users from the trading system once their unfair behav-
ior is identiﬁed.
In addition to the above penalty mechanisms, the reputation
mechanism, which assigns scores based on the seller’s behavior,
is also used in existing works. This mechanism could publicly
reveal the behavior of data sellers and inﬂuence the potential
purchase decisions, thereby guiding the fair behavior of sellers.
The data seller providing the defective or substandard products
would obtain a low score as designed in [14]. Taking the same
approach, Abbasi et al. employ a rating method in a blockchain-
based industrial Internet of Things (IIOT) data trading system,
enabling data buyers to grade sellers based on product quality
[15]. He et al. expand the scale of participants in the reputation
system, enabling data sellers and buyers to rate each other’s
behavior mutually [16].
1) PRE in Decentralized Data Sharing: The data sharing is
an important process in a decentralized data trading system. The
PRE has been widely adopted to achieve secure data exchange.
In the following, we review some of the representative work.
In most existing work, the re-encryption operations are usu-
ally performed by a presumed trust or semitrust proxy. For
example, Liu et al. propose a PRE-enabled electronic med-
ical records (EMR) sharing system [30]. The data provider
encrypts the EMRs and uploads them to the cloud, which is
semitrusted by the participants.When a data request is initiated,
the data provider generates a re-encryption key and delivers it
to the cloud, which is responsible for performing re-encryption.
Similarly, Zou et al. [31] develop a blockchain-based medical
data-sharing system. The medical institution holding patient
data works as a proxy to re-encrypt the data along with the
permission of the pa tient, enabling a desi gnated institution to
access the data content. In [32], an identity-based PRE scheme
is proposed for IoT data sharing, in which edge devices act as
re-encryption proxies. Likewise, Wang and Zhang[33] propose
TABLE II
COMPARISON WITH PRE SCHEMES FOR DECENTRALIZED DATA EXCHANGE
Schemes Executor Rekey Validation
[10], [30], [31], [32] Proxy ×
[34] Smart contract ×
This work Buyer ✓
a secure ride-sharin g scheme for an intelli gent transportation
scenario in which a trusted roadside unit (RSU) works as the re-
encryption proxy. The RSU receives encrypted travel informa-
tion from tourists and searches for a driver to provide services.
Once the trusted RSU identiﬁes a qualiﬁed driver, it requests
a rekey from the passenger and uses this rekey to re-encrypt
the ciphertext, allowing the driver to decrypt it with their
private key.
However, while these proxies are theoretically trustworthy
or semitrustworthy, practical implementation necessitates eval-
uating their ability to accurat ely re-encrypt data in the decen-
tralized environment. Several data-sharing mechanisms have
taken these challenges into account. In [34], blockchain is used
to address the problem of trusted or semitrusted proxy. It re-
places the re-encryption proxy with a smart contract, which
facilitates matching data owners and users, automatically re-
encrypting data using a rekey provided by the data owner.
Additionally, Kim et al. [35] employ smart contracts to deliver
the re-encryption key so that only the authorized data requesters
can access the re-encryption key and decrypt the encrypted data
by themselves. While these proxy-free PRE solutions affect
decentralized data sharing, they cannot check the correctness
of re-encryption keys.
2) Comparison: In summary, we compare the work of this
article with existing solutions to behavior fairness issues in
Table I and with representative PRE schemes for decentralized
data sharing in Table II. Our work effectively addresses vio-
lations by both buyers and sellers. Meanwhile, traditional PRE
approaches rely on a proxy, simplifying the delegatee’s task but
introducing signiﬁcant trust assumptions regarding the proxy’s
correct execution of the re-encryption. Replacing the proxy with
a smart contract enhances transparency and removes reliance on
a speciﬁc third party, but executing complex cryptographic op-
erations like re-encryption on-chain typically incurs prohibitive
gas costs. Our work delegates the re-encryption task to the
authorized data requestor (i.e., the buyer in a trading context).
While this eliminates the need for a trusted re-encrypting third
party and avoids expensive on-chain computation, it faces the
challenge of ensuring the received re-encryption key is valid. By
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

238 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 1. Flow of proxy re-encryption.
introducing a validation mechanism for the re-encryption key,
the combination of smart contracts and the proposed VPRE ad-
dresses this challenge, thereby preventing unfairness potentially
caused by either buyers or sellers.
III. P
RELIMINARIES
This section presents the underlying theory and technologies
for this work.
A. Proxy Re-Encryption
Proxy re-encryption (PRE) was ﬁrst proposed by Blaze,
Bleumer, and Strauss in [36]. It allows a proxy to transform a
ciphertext encrypted under one user’s public key into one that
can be decrypted by another user’s private key.
In the context of data sharing or data trading, a PRE scheme
involves three types of entities as follows.
1) Delegator is the data owner who owns data and a pair of
public and private keys. The data is encrypted using the
public key and stored in the server or proxy. The delega-
tor also generates re-encryption keys for the authorized
delegatee.
2) Proxy is a trusted third party that stores the ciphertext of
the delegator’s data. It is also responsible for transforming
the delegator’s ciphertext into the delegatee’s ciphertext
using the re-encryption key.
3) Delegatee is the data receiver authorized by the data
owner. It receives the transformed ciphertext of the dele-
gator’s data and then uses its private key to recover it.
PRE has a variety of schemes. The veriﬁable PRE scheme
proposed in this article is based on a hybrid PRE scheme that
integrates a symmetric encryption [17]. This scheme is illus-
trated in Fig. 1 and reviewed as follows.
1) The delegator A and delegatee B execute the key gen-
eration algorithm (PK,SK )←KeyGen(1
k) to output
their public and private key pairs (PKA,SKA) and
(PKB,SKB), respectively. Speciﬁcally, SKA,SKB ∈
Zp and PKA =gSKA,PK B =gSKB . Zp is a set of in-
tegers modulo a large primep, including all integers from
0t o p−1. g is a generator of an elliptic curve group G.
2) To encrypt a message M, the delegatorA executes the en-
cryption algorithm (C,capsule)←E (PKA,M ), where
E is an encryption function. The process involves several
steps described as follows. First,A generates two random
private keys e,v
R
←−Zp and computes the correspond-
ing public keys E =ge,V =gv. A veriﬁcation value s
is then derived as s=v +e·H1(E∥V), using a hash
function H1 :{0,1}∗→{0,1}256. Subsequently, a sym-
metric key K is computed via a key derivation function
KDF , speciﬁcallyK =KDF((PKA)e+v).T h i sk e yK
is used to encrypt the message M into the ciphertext
C =E(M,K ). Finally, A outputs the ciphertext C and
the capsule capsule=(E,V,s ) for submission to the
proxy.
3) To generate a re-encryption key RKA→B for
the delegatee B, A executes the re-encryption
key generation algorithm (RKA→B,XA)←
ReKeyGen(SKA,PK B). This involves A ﬁrst
generating a random private key xA
R
←−Zp and
its corresponding public key XA =gxA .T h er e -
encryption key RKA→B is then computed as
RKA→B =SKA ·d−1, where the value d is
derived from a hash function H2 :{0,1}∗→G
as d=H2(XA∥PKB∥PKxA
B ). (RKA→B,XA) is
subsequently submitted to the proxy.
4) To transform capsule of A into capsule′ of B,t h e
proxy executes the re-encryption algorithm capsule′ ←
ReEnc(RKA→B,capsule). Speciﬁcally, the proxy be-
gins by verifying the correctness of the input capsule
by checking ifgs =V ·EH1(E∥V). Upon successful val-
idation of capsule, the proxy proceeds to compute the
components of the new capsule capsule′ =(E′,V ′,s)
for B as E′ =ERKA→ B and V′ =VRKA→ B .A f t e rt h e
transformation process, the proxy sends (XA,capsule′)
to B.
5) To recover M from C, the delegatee B ﬁrst executes the
K ←ReCreatKey(SKB,XA,capsule′) algorithm to
recover the symmetric key K. Speciﬁcally, B computes
the value d=H2(XA∥PKB∥XSKB
A ) and then derives
the symmetric key K =KDF(E′ ·V′)d. Once the key
K is recovered, B uses the recovered key K to decrypt
C via the decryption algorithm D, obtaining the original
message M =D(C,K ).
B. Smart Contract
Smart contracts are programs deployed on the ethereum
blockchain. They are executed by blockchain nodes to auto-
matically achieve agreements among transaction participants
according to predeﬁned rules and conditions. They can incor-
porate intricate sets of operational rules and conditions, allow-
ing their customization to address diverse requirements. For
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

JI et al.: FAIR DATA TRADING ON BLOCKCHAIN THROUGH VERIFIABLE PROXY RE-ENCRYPTION 239
Fig. 2. Architecture of our data trading system. Each icon includes a color-coded lock in the bottom-ri ght corner, indicating the ﬁle is encrypted by t he
corresponding color of the key.
instance, it could establish payment stipulations and automat-
ically encrypt data. Once the predeﬁned criteria are satisﬁed,
these contracts autonomously carry out the designated actions.
This automation not only reduces the overhead associated with
manual operations but also elimi nates the possibility of fraud-
ulent activities during the execution phase.
IV . P
ROBLEM STATEMENT
This section formally outlines the environment, potential
threats, and core objectives for a decentralized data trading sys-
tem, establishing the context and requirements for our proposed
solution. As data trading becomes a fundamental category of
digital commerce, the shift towards decentralized platforms em-
powers users with greater control over their data assets and en-
ables direct peer-to-peer transactions. However, this paradigm
shift simultaneously introduces signiﬁcant challenges, particu-
larly concerning the assurance of fair behavior between inter-
acting parties.
A. System Model
Fig. 2 presents an overview of the proposed data trading
system and the main workﬂow for achieving behavior fairness.
As shown in the ﬁgure, the data trading system involves ﬁve
types of entity:
1) Data seller ( DS): An entity that owns data and intends
to monetize it by selling its content or access rights. It
possesses a pair of public–private keys. Besides, it gen-
erates a symmetric key for encrypting data and calculates
a re-encryption key for selling data.
2) Data buyer (DB): An entity that intends to buy data from
a data seller. It possesses a pair of public–private keys. It
calculates a veriﬁcation key to verify the correctness of
the re-encryption key provided by the seller during the
trading process.
3) Data evaluator (DE): An entity potentially responsible
for assessing the quality, legality, or accuracy of data
products as well as the data description before they are
listed for trading.
1 It has a pair of public–private keys.
4) Data trading chain (DTC ): A blockchain specialized for
data trading. It maintains trading information in the form
of transactions and realizes trading-related functions via
smart contracts.
5) Data outsourcing storage ( DOS): An off-chain storage
system (e.g., cloud storage, IPFS) responsible for storing
and retrieving data products. Normally, data stored in
DOS are ciphertext, which cannot be leaked without the
decryption key.
1Although involving the DE introduces a trusted entity for data admission,
it is a necessary trade-off for ensuring data quality and legality prior to trading
(similar to assessments for physical goods). This entity is strictly limited to
pretrade validation and does not involve i ntermediating the core peer-to-peer
trading execution.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

240 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2026
B. Threat Model
The absence of a central trusted regulator in decentralized en-
vironments makes the system vulnerable to dishonest behaviors
from participants. While users gain control of their ownership
of anything in the decentralized environment, they also bear the
consequences of potential fraud. It could be considered as the
following threats, acknowledging that adversaries may act out
of rational self-interest.
1) Dishonest data seller : A malicious DS may attempt to
receive payment from theDB without providing the cor-
rect means to access the promis ed data. A critical attack
vector, particularly in systems using proxy re-encryption,
involves the seller providing an incorrect, or incomplete
re-encryption key (rk). Such an action would prevent
the buyer from transforming the ciphertext and ultimately
decrypting the data, even after payment has been made.
Furthermore, DS might intentionally or unintentionally
submit incorrect cryptographic information earlier in the
protocol, such as an invalid commitment.
2) Dishonest data buyer: A maliciousDB might attempt to
obtain access to the data product (e.g., by receiving the re-
encrypted ciphertext or the ﬁnal decryption key without
making the correct or full payment to the DS.
Adversary capabilities are assumed as follows:
1) Fully control their own key pairs and computations.
2) Read all public information on the DTC and potentially
from the DOS.
3) Communicate with other parties and interact with the
smart contracts.
4) Deviate arbitrarily from the prescribed protocol steps,
including sending incorrect information.
Our threat model operates under the following security
assumptions:
1) The underlying blockchain (DTC) is secure against tam-
pering and ensures the correct execution of deployed
smart contracts.
2) The cryptographic primitives employed are computation-
ally secure.
3) All participants are responsible for securely managing
their own private keys.
4) The DOS is assumed to ensure data availability, but it is
not trusted with plaintext data or decryption keys; data
conﬁdentiality relies on encryption.
C. Design Goals
To address the challenges inherent in the described system
and threat model, our proposed VPRE scheme is designed to
achieve the following critical objectives:
1) Fairness: The system must guarantee behavior fairness by
ensuring an atomic-like exchange property. Speciﬁcally,
a transaction should be completed (i.e., the DB obtains
the correct, us able decryption capability via a valid re-
encryption key, and theDS receives the payment) if and
only if both parties act honestly according to the protocol.
The system must prevent ﬁnancial loss for the DB if the
DS provides an invalid key, and prevent data as well
as key leakage to the DB if payment is not correctly
made. Ultimately, unfair trans actions involving fairness
violations should be effectively terminated, preventing
loss for the honest party.
2) Security: A core technical requirement is to introduce and
enforce the veriﬁability of the re-encryption key gener-
ated by the DS. The system must provide a mechanism
for the smart contract (or the DB indirectly through the
contract) to check the correctness and validity of the rk
before theDB’s payment is irrevocably transferred to the
DS. This veriﬁability is cruci al for mitigating cheating.
3) Efﬁciency: The proposed protocols must be computa-
tionally and economically feasible. Off-chain crypto-
graphic operations should have acceptable performance,
and on-chain operations should incur reasonable transac-
tion costs (Gas fees) to ensure practical usability.
V. SYSTEM DESIGN
This section presents the structure, working ﬂow, and algo-
rithm design of the VPRE scheme. Algorithms and notations
used in the system design are explained in Tables III and IV.
A. System Overview
Fig. 2 presents an overview of the proposed data trading
system and the main workﬂow for achieving behavior fairness.
Meanwhile, the overall system workﬂow is illustrated in Fig. 3.
It can be divided into three phases as follows.
1) System initialization which initializes system parameters
and public–private key pairs for DS, DB, and DE.
2) Phase I system admission which involves the evaluation,
encryption, and out-sourced storing procedures for data.
3) Phase II trading which involves the setup of data price
and status, the payment process, and the delivery of data.
The remaining part of this section will introduce the three
phases in detail.
B. System Initialization
When a party, such as a new user (either a data seller or data
buyer) or a data evaluator, joins the system, a pair of public–
private keys will be generated for them. Let (Z
p,G,g ) be the
system parameter shared to all participants. Speciﬁcally, a party
will generate its public–private key pairs as follows:
SK
R
←−Zp (1)
PK =gSK. (2)
The private key SK is kept secretly by the party, and
the public key PK is published in the system. Authentic-
ity of the public key can be realized via adopting methods
such as PKI [37], [38], [39], [40] and ID-based solutions
[41], [42], [43], [44].
C. Phase I: System Admission
In this phase, the data seller DS, who intends to sell data D,
ﬁrst submits the data to the data evaluator DE for evaluation.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

JI et al.: FAIR DATA TRADING ON BLOCKCHAIN THROUGH VERIFIABLE PROXY RE-ENCRYPTION 241
TABLE III
ALGORITHMS IN SYSTEM DESIGN
Algorithm Description
sEnc(M,N ) Use the AES-GCM algorithm t o symmetrically encrypt data M with the encryption key N
sDec(M,N ) Use the AES-GCM algorithm t o symmetrically decrypt data M with the decryption key N
aEnc(M,PK i) Use the public key of the entity i to asymmetrically encrypt data M
aDec(M,SK i) Use the private key of the entity i to asymmetrically decrypt data M
rEnc(C,rk) Use re-encryption key rk to re-encrypt the ciphertext C
TABLE IV
NOTATIONS IN SYSTEM DESIGN
Notation Description
DS Data seller in the data trading system
DB Data buyer in the data trading system
DE Data evaluator
DTC Blockchain for trading data
DOS Cloud storage system
DAddr Address of data stored in DOS
DD Data product description
D Original plain-text data product for sale
Cf Ciphertext of the original data D
fkey Key of the ciphertext Cf
Cfk Ciphertext of fkey , obtained by encrypting fkey using the public key of DE
Ckey Ciphertext of fkey , obtained by encrypting fkey using the public key of DS
SKx,PK x Key pairs of the entity x
EthAddrx Blockchain address of the entity x
UID Unique identiﬁed number for the data product
rk Re-encryption key
vk Veriﬁcation key for assessi ng the correctness of rk
cmit The commitment origin ates from the computation of rk
Then, the evaluated dataD will be stored in the data outsourcing
storage DOS, and related information will be recorded in the
data trading chain DTC . Finally, theDS can set up a price for
D and initiate the trading stage. The detailed steps are explained
as follows.
1) DS submits D to DE for evaluation.
a) DS generates a random key fkey and uses it to en-
crypt data D through symmetric encryption scheme:
Cf ←sEnc(D,fkey ) (3)
Then, DS uploads Cf to DOS.
b) DS encrypts the symmetric keyfkey under the pub-
lic key of DE using asymmetric encryption scheme:
Cfk ←aEnc(fkey,PK DE) (4)
Then DS submits its address EthAddrDS , PKDS ,
Cfk , and a description of the data product DD to
the blockchain via Authentication smart contract
(Algorithm 1). Successful execution of this smart con-
tract will trigger a blockchain event to notify theDE
to evaluate the data (Step 2).
2) DE evaluates D,s t o r e si tt oDOS and records DD to
DTC .
a) DE retrieves the Cfk from the DTC .
b) DE decrypts Cfk using its private key SKDE to
obtain fkey :
fkey ←aDec(Cfk,SKDE) (5)
c) DE retrieves the Cf from the DOS.
d) DE decrypts Cf using fkey to obtain the original
data D:
D ←sDec(Cf,fkey ) (6)
Then, DE evaluates the quality of the D along with
the accuracy and consistency of its DD stored on
DTC .
e) Once the data passes these evaluations, DE encrypts
fkey under the DS’s public key PKDS .
Ckey ←aEnc(fkey,PK DS) (7)
f) Finally, DE submits EthAddrDS , Ckey , DD and
the address of the encrypted ﬁle DAddr and DTC
by authenticateData() function of Authentication
smart contract (Algorithm 1). Complete execution of
the smart contract will create a unique identiﬁed num-
ber UID to the data, indicating this data is granted
permission to enter the data trading system.
3) DS sets a price for D, which indicates that the data is
available for purchase. Speciﬁcally,DS submits theUID
and the price for the qualiﬁed data to the blockchain
through the listData() function of DataList smart con-
tract (Algorithm 2). The smart contract examines the
data product availability by checking the cor rectness of
UID , ownership, and listing status. If all requirements
are satisﬁed, the UID , data price, list timestamp, and
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

242 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 3. Sequence diagram for the system.
EthAddrDS will be recorded on the DTC . The listing
status of this data has been changed to true, implying that
the data is permitted to be tr aded in the trading system.
D. Phase II: Data Trading
In this phase, potential buyers can review all the data descrip-
tions and prices for all the data in the data trading system. Once
a DB decides to buy a data product, the outstanding balance
in the DTC is ﬁrst paid. The DS who wants to receive the
money from DTC must provide a correct re-encryption key
for DB. A VPRE scheme is introduced to ensure that the DS
cannot receive the money unless a correct re-encryption key is
provided. The whole process is explained as follows:
1) DB pays forD. Speciﬁcally,DB deposits the amount of
money corresponding to the desired data product denoted
by UID via the deposit() function of the FundFlow
smart contract (Algorithm 3). The deposit() function
checks whether the status of the data is listed for sale and
whether the amount matches the price. It also necessitates
that the data product is not presently subject to a trading
lock period. If the selected data is during a trading lock
period, it indicates that the data product is currently in-
volved in a transaction initiated by another DB.
Following a successful deposit by DB, both DS and
DB are required to undertake a series of actions to fa-
cilitate the progression of data trading. The data trading
system stipulates a time window commencing from the
deposit timestamp, during which DB is prohibited from
withdrawing the deposited money.
2) To obtain the payment, DS generates a re-encryption key
rk for DB and a commitment cmit.
a) DS generates rk as follows:
i) Generate a pair of ephemeral public and private
keys (PK
e,SKe):
SKe
R
←−Zp (8)
PKe =gSKe. (9)
ii) Compute a hash digest d:
d←H2(PKe∥PKDB∥PKDB
SKe). (10)
iii) Compute rk:
rk =SKDS ·d−1. (11)
b) DS computes cmit for rk as follows:
cmit←H3(grk). (12)
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

JI et al.: FAIR DATA TRADING ON BLOCKCHAIN THROUGH VERIFIABLE PROXY RE-ENCRYPTION 243
Algorithm 1: Authentication Smart Contract.
Algorithm 2: Data List Smart Contract.
c) DS submits cmit and PKe to the DTC via the sub-
mitCmit() function ofTrading smart contract (Algo-
rithm 4). Note that till this stage, no information about
rk has been revealed to the DTC and DB.
3) DTC veriﬁes the rk.
a) DB generates the veriﬁcation key vk as follows:
vd ←H2(PKe∥PKDB∥PKe
SKDB ) (13)
vk =PKDS
vd−1
. (14)
Algorithm 3: Fund Flow Smart Contract.
b) DB submits vk along with UID to DTC via sub-
mitVK() function of Trading smart contract (Algo-
rithm 4).
c) DTC validates cmit using the vk. Speciﬁcally, it
checks if the following condition is met:
cmit=H3(vk) (15)
This check veriﬁes ifcmit is a potentially valid com-
mitment corresponding to vk. If the condition holds,
the trading procedure proceeds. Otherwise, the trad-
ing fails and terminates.
d) DS submits rk to DTC . Speciﬁcally, the rk, UID
and EthAddrDb are uploaded to the DTC via
the settlement() function of Trading smart contract
(Algorithm 4).
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

244 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2026
Algorithm 4: Trading Smart Contract.
e) DTC authenticates rk via checking if the following
condition is met:
cmit=H3(grk) (16)
This check veriﬁes if rk correctly corresponds to
cmit provided earlier by the DS. If the condition
holds, rk is considered valid, allowing the trading
process to proceed. Otherwise, rk is deemed invalid,
and the process halts before settlement.
4) Completion of the trading.
a) Settlement. Once rk is validated as authentic in Step
3.d, rk will be displayed on DTC , and the de-
posited fund will be transferred to DS (Line 32 of
Algorithm 4).
b) Re-encryption and decryption of the Ckey . In this step,
DB acquire the fkey as follows:
i) Re-encrypt Ckey using rk to transfer it into the
ciphertext of fkey under SKDB :
C′
key ←rEnc(Ckey,rk). (17)
ii) Decrypt C′
key to obtain fkey :
fkey ←aDec(C′
key,SKDB). (18)
c) DB accesses the Cf from DOS.
d) DB obtains D by decrpyting Cf under fkey
D ←sDec(Cf,fkey ). (19)
5) Withdrawal
If the veriﬁcation result fails in Step 3.c or Step 3.e, which
means DS fails to submit the correct cmit or rk within
the stipulated trading time window, DB retains the right
to reclaim the deposited funds.DB could submitUID to
trigger the withdrawal() function in theFundFlow smart
contract (Algorithm 3) when the time has exceeded the
stipulated trading time window. The FundFlow smart
contract checks DB’s identity as well as the sales sta-
tus of UID , and then returns the deposited fund to the
DB once all the requirements are passed (Line 23 of
Algorithm 3).
VI. I MPLEMENTATION AND EXPERIMENTS
A. Setup
We have realized a decentralized fair data trading system
prototype using go and solidity programming languages. The
implementation speciﬁcation and experiment environment are
introduced in Table V.
B. Test Scenarios
In this section, ﬁve scenarios that are prone to violating
behavior fairness are taken into consideration. In each scenario,
we deﬁne a pair of test cases, making a total of 10 test cases. In
each pair, one case conforms to behavioral fairness, whereas the
other violates it. All test cases (denoted as TC ) are described
in Table VI.
1) Test Scenario for Deposit Sufﬁciency: In this scenario,
the violation of fairness is derived from the DB depositing the
money into the smart contract. TheTC
1−1 tests the fair practice
that the DB selects desired data and deposits sufﬁcient money,
while TC1−2 tests the insufﬁcient money paid by DB.
2) Test Scenario for Data Accuracy in Listings: In this
scenario, the fairness is violated by DS listing data via UID .
TC2−1 tests that the DS correctly lists the data to the smart
contract. TC2−2 tests the unfair behavior when DS submits a
UID corresponding to data outsideDS’s ownership or submits
a nonexistent data product’s UID .
3) Test Scenario for cmit Submission: In this scenario,
the DS is required to compute and submit cmit to the smart
contract. Violation of fairness results from the DS uploading
a wrong cmit. In particular, TC3−1 tests that the DS fairly
submits a correct cmit, while TC3−2 tests that DS provides
an incorrect cmit.
4) Test Scenario for vk Submission: In this scenario, the
DB should compute vk off-chain and upload it pointing to the
data. The unfair practice is that theDB designates an improper
data product or provides an erroneous vk. TC4−1 tests that the
DB submits the correct vk, while TC4−2 tests the incorrect
one.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

JI et al.: FAIR DATA TRADING ON BLOCKCHAIN THROUGH VERIFIABLE PROXY RE-ENCRYPTION 245
TABLE V
EXPERIMENTAL ENVIRONMENT
Item Implementation Details
Programming Language Go, Solidity
Solidity Library Ownable from Open zeppelin, BigNumbers, EllipticCurve
aEnc and aDec ECC on curve secp256r1
sEnc and sDec AES-GCM
H2 HashToCurve() function in goRecrypt library
H3 Keccack-256
Blockchain Network Remix VM
Hardware MacBook Pro (CPU: Apple M1 Pro, RAM: 16GB, OS: macOS Monterey 12.5)
TABLE VI
TEST CASES OF BEHAVIOR FAIRNESS VIOLATIONS
Index Description Fairness Violation Execution Entity
TC1−1 Deposit sufﬁcient money No DB
TC1−2 Deposit insufﬁcient money Yes DB
TC2−1 List correct data product with price No DS
TC2−2 List non-owned or unqualiﬁed data Yes DS
TC3−1 Submit correct cmit No DS
TC3−2 Submit incorrect cmit Yes DS
TC4−1 Submit correct vk No DB
TC4−2 Submit incorrect vk Yes DB
TC5−1 Submit correct rk No DS
TC5−2 Submit incorrect rk Yes DS
5) Test Scenario for Settlement: In this scenario, DS is
required to submit rk to complete the data trading process.
The practice violating behavior fairness is that theDS provides
an incorrect rk. TC5−1 tests that the DS behaves fairly to
submit correct rk, while the TC5−2 tests that the DS inputs
an incorrect one.
C. Results and Analysis
In the 10 test cases, 5 cases with fairness violations were ter-
minated, and the trading was canceled. Another 5 cases without
any fairness violation led to successful trading. This proves that
the proposed solution can effectively address the behavior fair-
ness issue by identifying violations and terminating the relevant
trading. Besides, we test the gas consumption for each case and
summarize the results in Fig. 4.
According to Fig. 4, we can draw the following conclusions.
1) Gas consumption data across all test cases reveals that
the VPRE mechanism is cost-effective in handling fair-
ness violations. The cost incurred when detecting and
terminating an unfair transaction is consistently found
to be no more than that of completing the correspond-
ing honest transaction. Without the VPRE scheme, such
unfair actions could proceed undetected, consuming gas
comparable to the fair s cenario but ultimately lead-
ing to trading failure. For the majority of pairs of
test cases, the gas cost of detecting and halting un-
fair transactions is less than the potentially high cost
of allowing an unchecked invalid transaction to execute
fully.
2) For TC
3−1 and TC3−2, the gas fees for both cases are
close. The reason is that our system allows any cmit to
Fig. 4. Gas consumption in different fairness behavior test cases.
be recorded on the blockchain at this step. But a wrong
cmit will not pass the veriﬁcation in the further steps
and the trading will not be completed. Not only can DS
not receive the payment, but DS also has to bear the gas
losses.
3) Compared to all other test pairs, TC5−1 andTC5−2 have
the highest gas costs. This is caused by the complexity
of the computation of verifying the correctness of rk.
Given that rk serves as the critical element in obtaining
the data product, safeguar ding the conﬁdentiality of the
correct rk till the ﬁnality of the trading is essential to
secure DS’s beneﬁts. After the veriﬁcation of the rk,
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

246 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 5. Gas consumption comparison between VPRE and OBFP.
the rk from DS and the money from DB are settled
in an atomic method, ensur ing that no entity’s beneﬁts
are compromised. Therefore, although this step requires
more gas cost, it is justiﬁed and worthwhile.
These experimental ﬁndings validate the system’s abil-
ity to meet the Fairness goal outlined in Section IV-C by
effectively terminating unfair transactions and preventing
loss for the honest party. Furthermore, they demonstrate
progress towards the Efﬁciency goal by potentially avoid-
ing signiﬁcant gas waste compared to unchecked unfair
processes.
VII. S
YSTEM EVALUATION
This section ﬁrst analyzes the veriﬁability of the re-
encryption key in the VPRE scheme, then evaluates the security
of smart contracts. Finally, we evaluate the whole system’s
performance, indicating that the system generally meets the
Efﬁciency design goal deﬁned in Section IV.
A. Veriﬁability of Re-Encryption Key
A signiﬁcant feature of the proposed VPRE is the public
veriﬁability of the re-encryptio n key. Below, we analyze how
this is guaranteed in the scheme.
First, in Step 2 of the Data Trading phase, DS submits
a commitment cmit=H
3(grk) for the re-encryption key rk,
where
rk =SKDS ·d−1 (20)
and
d=H2(PKe∥PKDB∥PKDB
SKe). (21)
Then, in Step 3-a to 3-c, to verify the correctness of rk, DB
generates a veriﬁcation key vk using his private key SKDB as
follows:
vd =H2(PKe∥PKDB∥PKe
SKDB ) (22)
TABLE VII
SECURITY ANALYSIS RESULTS VIA MYTHX
Smart Contract Severity
Low Medium High
Authentication Contract 0 0 0
Data List Contract 0 0 0
Fund Flow Contract 0 0 0
Trading Contract 0 0 0
and
vk =PKDS
vd−1
. (23)
Since
PKDB
SKe =PKe
SKDB (24)
which means the H2 preimages of d and vd are identical, we
have
vd =d (25)
and
vk =PKDS
vd−1
(26)
=gSKDS·d−1
(27)
=grk. (28)
Next, the re-encryption key rk submitted by DS in Step 3-d
will be veriﬁed via the smart contract to see if grk is identical
to the commitment of rk submitted in Step 2-c. The trading
proceeds to a succe ssful completion if and only if the key
revealed in Step 3-d is the correct one to transform the ciphertext
of DS to that of DB.
This demonstrates that the ver iﬁability of the re-encryption
key directly fulﬁlls theSecurity design goal of re-encryption key
veriﬁability as stated in Section IV-C. Moreover, by ensuring
that only valid keys are accepted before payment transfer, this
mechanism is fundamental to achieving the overarching Fair-
ness goal, effectively mitigating cheating attempts involving
incorrect keys.
B. Smart Contract Security Evaluation
MythX is introduced to analyze the security of smart con-
tracts. As showcased on its ofﬁcial website, it categorizes vul-
nerabilities into six distinct t ypes and offers 46 specialized
detectors for a comprehensive security evaluation.
The result of the security analysis of our proposed smart
contracts is illustrated in Table VII. It concludes that no known
security vulnerabilities or potential threats have been identiﬁed
in the smart contracts for our fair-trading framework.
C. Smart Contract Cost Evaluation
To evaluate the cost and performance of the proposed system,
we test the gas consumption of deploying smart contracts and
on-chain operations. The total gas consumption of deploying
four main smart contracts is 14 771 394 Gwei on a gas price
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

JI et al.: FAIR DATA TRADING ON BLOCKCHAIN THROUGH VERIFIABLE PROXY RE-ENCRYPTION 247
Fig. 6. Gas consumption analysis across different buyers.
Fig. 7. Time consumption of off-ch ain operations for different entities.
of 2 Gwei/gas. With respect to the gas fees for these on-chain
operations during the trading phase, the principle is that the en-
tity calling the respective smartcontract function bears the cost.
Consequently, for the core VPRE veriﬁcation steps, DS pays
the fees for executing the submitCmit and settlement functions,
while theDB pays the fee for executing thesubmitVK function.
To thoroughly analyze the gas cost consumption of the VPRE
trading scheme, Fig. 5 shows a comparison between the VPRE
and OBFP [27] trading ﬂows for the cost of smart contract oper-
ations performed by each entity. VPRE’s initial deployment is
higher than OBFP, due to the multiple elliptic curve calculations
present in the contract. However, once the contract is deployed,
it will be continuously used by the participants, making it an ac-
ceptable long-term ﬁxed cost. The total consumption of entities
participating in the trading system is less than the OBFP, and
Fig. 8. Performance comparison: PRE vs VPRE.
as the number of transactions increases, this advantage contin-
ues to expand. Additionally, VPRE implements the ability to
verify key correctness during the transaction process, allowing
transactions to terminate immediately when veriﬁcation fails.
In contrast, OBFP requires an appeal process for incorrect data
products, incurring additional costs for the getProof() function
at 57 000 Gwei and submitCP() at 100 000 Gwei.
VPRE allows the seller to s ell the data product to multiple
buyers, which is common in real-world data trading scenarios.
The smart contract operations executed by the DS include
listing the data, submitting the commitment of the re-encryption
key, and submitting the re-encryption key to settle the trading.
In detail, DS needs to list the data product only once at a ﬁxed
cost of 172 542 Gwei; therefore, this initial listing cost remains
constant regardless of the number of buyers. Besides,DS must
perform the commitment submission via submitCmit() function
and submit rk via the settlement() function for each buyer
individually. The gas fees are summarized in Fig. 6, which
shows that selling a listed dat a product to b uyers increases
linearly with the number of buyers. It can be observed that
the settlement() function incurs signiﬁcant gas consumption,
primarily due to the intricate elliptic curve computations within
the smart contract. Correspondingly, each buyer only needs to
execute deposit() at a cost of 234 536 Gwei and submitVK() at
170 680 Gwei for each data product they wish to purchase.
D. Time Cost Evaluation
The off-chain operation times for DE, DS, and DB are
tested and summarized in Fig. 7. According to the results,
the total execution times for each entity, measured over 100
iterations with a ﬁle size of 1 MB to obtain the average, are
403.06 μs, 571.74 μs, and 555.29 μs, respectively.
To evaluate the performance of core cryptographic opera-
tions, we compared a traditional PRE scheme with our proposed
VPRE scheme using 1 MB data blocks averaged over 100
iterations. As shown in Fig.8, the analysis focused onKey Pairs
Generation,aEnc(), Generation of rk , rEnc(), aDec(), and the
VPRE-speciﬁc Generation of cmit and Generation of vk.T h e
cumulative execution time for these core operations was 509.91
μsfor PRE and 629.79 μs
for VPRE. Performance on shared
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

248 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2026
TABLE VIII
COMPUTATIONAL COMPLEXITY COMPARISON OF THREE TRADING SCHEMES BY ROLE AND PHASE
Phases
Data Seller Data Buyer Other Entity
VPRE PRES [10] Fair2Trade [23] VPRE PRES [10] Fair2Trade [23] VPRE PRES [10] Fair2Trade [23]
Data processing O(m) O(m) O(m) -- - O(m) --
Veriﬁcation O(1) O(1) O(m) O(1) O(r) O(m) - O(N) -
Delivery & Settlement O(1) O(1) O(1) O(m) O(m) O(m) O(1) O(r) -
Fig. 9. Average encryption and decr yption times for different ﬁle sizes.
operations remained comparable due to the common underly-
ing elliptic curve cryptography. The VPRE scheme introduced
Generation of cmit requiring 18.83 μsand Generation of
vk requiring 109.75 μs, which collectively add approximately
25.21% overhead relative to other PRE operations but are inte-
gral to its enhanced security framework.
Additionally, for encryption and decryption operations, the
time consumption is inﬂuenced by the size of the data product.
Therefore, we further tested the time for these operations by
changing the size of the data. The results are presented in
Fig. 9, which shows that larger data ﬁles incur higher symmetric
encryption and decryption time costs.
E. Computational Complexity Comparison
The computational complexitie s of the three data trading
schemes are compared as shown in Table VIII, including the
PRES scheme in [10],t h eF a i r
2Trade scheme in [23], and our
proposed VPRE scheme. The complexity model is parameter-
ized bym, the size of each original plaintext record;N, the total
size of all stored ciphertexts associated with keywords; andr∈
[0,N ], the size of the encrypted result set returned for a given
query. Its total complexity is O(m) from VPRE, indicating
that it maintains efﬁciency even when processing large datasets.
Notably, VPRE can verify re-encryption keys with a complexity
of O(1), a constant-time operation that further enhances com-
putational efﬁciency. While PRES also supports veriﬁcation, it
is limited to identifying ciphertext with keyword veriﬁcation,
resulting in a complexity of O(r) from the buyer’s side. And a
third party in PRES also needs to support this process, requiring
a complexity of O(N). Meanwhile, Fair 2Trade validates the
data content itself, its complexity is O(m). VPRE ofﬂoads this
task to the data evaluator, improving overall efﬁciency. Thus,
VPRE strikes a better balance between data trading fairness and
efﬁcient trading process, especially in the veriﬁcation phase.
VIII. C
ONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
In this work, we established a data trading ecosystem based
on blockchain, aiming to guarantee the fair behavior of all
participants. As a core component of the ecosystem, VPRE
is proposed to realize the correctness and consistency of
the re-encryption key. Leveragi ng the programmability of the
blockchain, the data trading process can be executed through
smart contracts without relying on a central authority, and trans-
actions can only be completed under conditions of fair behavior.
Experiments tested the participants’ behavior, and operations
susceptible to cheating practices were effectively identiﬁed.
Evaluation results of our fair data trading ecosystem proved
that the VPRE mechanism is feasible, and the design of the
smart contract is highly assured. The performance of gas and
time costs is practical and demonstrates the efﬁciency of our
ecosystem in achieving secure and fair data trading.
While demonstrating a robust mechanism for fair data trad-
ing, certain limitations remain. The presence of a data evaluator
is assumed to be responsible for pretrade validation, which
is necessary for data quality control in the current context.
However, the speciﬁc mechanisms for governing and ensuring
the trustworthiness of data evaluators are beyond the scope of
this article. Similarly, the economic model is not deﬁned within
the presented protocol, including incentive structures required
to motivate and regulate data evaluators.
Further work could explore several key aspects. First, de-
signing robust incentive mechanisms and economic models for
data trading participants is crucial for practical deployment
and long-term sustainability. Second, exploring the integration
of privacy-enhancing technologies during the data evaluation
phase could potentially minimize trust assumptions placed on
data evaluators or even eliminate their role. Finally, continued
optimization of the protocol’s scalability and gas efﬁciency
remains an important objective for future improvement.
R
EFERENCES
[1] MarketsandMarkets, “Big data ma rket by offering, business function,
data type, vertical and region—Global forecast to 2028,” Accessed:
Apr. 4, 2024. [Online]. Available: https://www.marketsandmarkets.com/
Market-Reports/big-data-market-1068.html
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

JI et al.: FAIR DATA TRADING ON BLOCKCHAIN THROUGH VERIFIABLE PROXY RE-ENCRYPTION 249
[2] W. Dai, C. Dai, K.-K. R. Choo, C. Cui, D. Zou, and H. Jin, “SDTE:
A secure blockchain-based data trading ecosystem,” IEEE Trans. Inf.
Forensics Secur., vol. 15, pp. 725–737, 2020.
[3] C. Chen, J. Wu, H. Lin, W. Chen, and Z. Zheng, “A secure and efﬁcient
blockchain-based data trading a pproach for Internet of Vehicles,” IEEE
Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 68, no. 9, pp. 9110–9121, 2019.
[4] C. Liu and Z. Li, “Comparison of centralized and peer-to-peer decentral-
ized market designs for community markets,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. ,
vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 67–77, 2022.
[5] Y . Li, L. Li, Y . Zhao, N. Guizani, Y . Yu, and X. Du, “Toward
decentralized fair data tradin g based on blockchain,” IEEE Netw.,v o l .
35, no. 1, pp. 304–310, 2021.
[6] A. Dixit, A. Singh, Y . Rahulamathavan, and M. Rajarajan, “FAST DATA:
A fair, secure, and trusted decen tralized IIoT data marketplace enabled
by blockchain,” IEEE Internet Things J. , vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 2934–2944,
2023.
[7] C. Li, S. Liang, J. Zhang, Q. e Wang, and Y . Luo, “Blockchain-
based data trading in edge-cl oud computing environment,” Inf. Process.
Manage., vol. 59, no. 1, 2022, Art. no. 102786.
[8] S. Delgado-Segura, C. Pérez-Solà, G. Navarro-Arribas, and J. Herrera-
Joancomartí, “A fair protocol for d ata trading based on bitcoin transac-
tions,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst. , vol. 107, pp. 832–840, 2020.
[9] H. Hamledari and M. Fischer, “Cons truction payment automation using
blockchain-enabled smart contracts and robotic reality capture technolo-
gies,” Autom. Constr., vol. 132, 2021, Art. no. 103926.
[10] X. Lu et al., “Decentralized fair IO T data trading via searchable proxy
re-encryption,” IEEE Internet Things J. , vol. 11, no. 11, pp. 19485–
19499, 2024.
[11] J. Gao, H. Yu, X. Zhu, and X. Li, “Blockchain-based digital rights
management scheme via multiauthority ciphertext-policy attribute-based
encryption and proxy re-encryption,” IEEE Syst. J. , vol. 15, no. 4, pp.
5233–5244, 2021.
[12] Y . Zhao, Y . Yu, Y . Li, G. Han, and X. Du, “Machine learning based
privacy-preserving fair data trading in big data market,” Inf. Sci. ,v o l .
478, pp. 449–460, 2019.
[13] D. Hu, Y . Li, L. Pan, M. Li, and S. Zh eng, “A blockchain-based trading
system for big data,” Comput. Netw., vol. 191, 2021, Art. no. 107994.
[14] G. Baranwal and D. P. Vidyarthi, “A fair multi-attribute combinatorial
double auction model for resource allocation in cloud computing,” J.
Syst. Softw., vol. 108, pp. 60–76, 2015.
[15] M. Abbasi, J. Prieto, A. Shahrak i, and J. M. Corchado, “Industrial data
monetization: A blockchain-based i ndustrial IoT data trading system,”
Internet Things, vol. 24, 2023, Art. no. 100959.
[16] Y . He, H. Zhu, C. Wang, K. Xiao, Y . Zhou, and Y . Xin, “An accountable
data trading platform based on blockchain,” in Proc. INFOCOM or IEEE
Conf. Comput. Commun. Workshops (INFOCOM WKSHPS) , 2019, pp.
1–6.
[17] Sher, “goRecrypt,” 2020, Accessed: Apr. 5, 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://github.com/SherLzp/goRecrypt
[18] MythX, “Mythx: Smart contract security service for ethereum,”
mythx.io, 2024. Accessed: Ap r. 11, 2024. [Online]. Available https://
mythx.io/
[19] S. Bajoudah, C. Dong, and P. Missier, “Toward a decentralized, trust-less
marketplace for brokered IoT data trading using blockchain,” in Proc.
IEEE Int. Conf. Blockchain (Blockchain), 2019, pp. 339–346.
[20] Z. Liu et al., “Pricing game and bl ockchain for electr icity data trading
in low-carbon smart energy systems,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat. ,v o l .
20, no. 4, pp. 6446–6456, 2024.
[21] Z. Liu, B. Huang, Y . Li, Q. Sun, T. B. Pedersen, and D. W. Gao, “Pricing
game and blockchain for electricity d ata trading in low-carbon smart
energy systems,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat. , vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 6446–
6456, 2024.
[ 2 2 ] L .X u e ,J .N i ,D .L i u ,X .L i n ,a n dX. Shen, “Blockchain-based fair
and ﬁne-grained data tradin g with privacy preservation,” IEEE Trans.
Comput., vol. 72, no. 9, pp. 2440–2453, 2023.
[23] C. Chenli, W. Tang, H. Lee, and T. Jung, “Fair 22trade: Digital trading
platform ensuring exchange and distribution fairness,” IEEE Trans.
Dependable Secure Comput. , vol. 21, no. 5, pp. 4827–4842, 2024.
[24] Y . Lu, J. Wang, L. Liu, and H. Yang, “Get by how much you pay: A
novel data pricing scheme for data trading,” Inf. Process. Manage.,v o l .
61, no. 6, 2024, Art. no. 103849.
[25] J. Li, J. Li, X. Wang, R. Qin, Y . Yuan, and F.-Y . Wang, “Multi-blockchain
based data trading markets w ith novel pricing mechanisms,” IEEE/CAA
J. Autom. Sinica , vol. 10, no. 12, pp. 2222–2232, 2023.
[26] P. Abla, T. Li, D. He, H. Huang, S. Yu, and Y . Zhang, “Fair and privacy-
preserved data trading proto col by exploitin g blockchain,” IEEE Trans.
Inf. Forensics Secur., vol. 19, pp. 9012–9025, 2024.
[27] C. Lin, D. He, X. Huang, and K.-K. R. Choo, “OBFP: Optimized
blockchain-based fair payment f or outsourcing computations in cloud
computing,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Forensics Secur., vol. 16, pp. 3241–3253,
2021.
[28] M. Ha, S. Kwon, Y . J. Lee, Y . Shim, and J.-W. Kim, “Where WTS meets
WTB: A blockchain-based marketp lace for digital me to trade users’
private data,” Pervasive Mob. Comput. , vol. 59, pp. 101078–101090,
2019.
[29] D. Hu, Y . Li, L. Pan, M. Li, and S. Zh eng, “A blockchain-based trading
system for big data,” Comput. Netw., vol. 191, 2021, Art. no. 107994.
[30] J. Liu et al., “Conditional anon ymous remote healthcare data sharing
over blockchain,” IEEE J. Biomed. Health Inform. , vol. 27, no. 5, pp.
2231–2242, 2023.
[31] R. Zou, X. Lv, and J. Zhao, “SPCh ain: Blockchain-based medical data
sharing and privacy-preserving eHealth system,” Inf. Process. Manage.,
vol. 58, no. 4, 2021, Art. no. 102604.
[32] K. O.-B. O. Agyekum, Q. Xia, E. B. Sifah, C. N. A. Cobblah, H. Xia,
and J. Gao, “A proxy re-encryption a pproach to secure data sharing in
the Internet of Things based on blockchain,” IEEE Syst. J. , vol. 16, no.
1, pp. 1685–1696, 2022.
[33] D. Wang and X. Zhang, “Secure ride-sharing services based on a
consortium blockchain,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 2976–
2991, 2020.
[34] Y . Zhou, Z. Cao, X. Dong, and J. Zhou, “BLDSS: A blockchain-
based lightweight searchable d ata sharing schem e in vehicular social
networks,” IEEE Internet Things J. , vol. 10, no. 9, pp. 7974–7992,
2023.
[35] T. Kim, I. Y . Jung, and Y .-C. Hu, “Automatic, location-privacy pre-
serving dashcam video sharing us ing blockchain and deep learning,”
Human-Centric Comput. Inf. Sci. , vol. 10, no. 1, pp. 1–23, 2020.
[36] M. Blaze, G. Bleumer, and M. Strau ss, “Divertible protocols and atomic
proxy cryptography,” in Proc. Adv. Cryptol. EUROCRYPT , vol. 1403,
pp. 127–144, 1998.
[37] R. Perlman, “An overview of PKI trust models,” IEEE Netw., vol. 13,
no. 6, pp. 38–43, 1999.
[38] Y . Li, Y . Yu, C. Lou, N. Guizani, and L. Wang, “Decentralized public
key infrastructure s atop blockchain,” IEEE Netw. , vol. 34, no. 6, pp.
133–139, 2020.
[39] A. Rashid, A. Masood, H. Abbas, and Y . Zhang, “Blockchain-based
public key infrastructure: A transp arent digital certiﬁ cation mechanism
for secure communication,” IEEE Netw., vol. 35, no. 5, pp. 220–225,
2021.
[40] S. Khan, F. Luo, Z. Zhang, M. A. Rahim, M. Ahmad, and K. Wu, “Sur-
vey on issues and recent advances in ve hicular public-key infrastructure
(VPKI),” IEEE Commun. Surv. Tuts. , vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 1574–1601,
2022.
[41] H. Deng et al., “Identity-based en cryption transformation for ﬂexible
sharing of encrypted data in public cloud,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Forensics
Secur., vol. 15, pp. 3168–3180, 2020.
[42] D. Pavithran, J. N. Al-Karaki, an d K. Shaalan, “Edge-based blockchain
architecture for event-driven IoT us ing hierarchical identity based en-
cryption,” Inf. Process. Manage., vol. 58, 2021, Art. no. 102528.
[43] K. Lee, “Comments on: Secure d ata sharing in cloud computing using
revocable-storage identity-based encryption,” IEEE Trans. Cloud Com-
put., vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 1299–1300, Apr. 2020.
[44] M. Kumar and S. Chand, “A secure and efﬁcient cloud-centric internet-
of-medical-things-enabled smart h ealthcare system with public veriﬁa-
bility,” IEEE Internet Things J. , vol. 7, no. 10, pp. 10650–10659, Oct.
2020.
Ziyang Ji received the M.S. degree in business
analytics from Xi’an Jiaotong-Liverpool University,
Suzhou, China, in 2020. He is currently working
toward the Ph.D. degree in computer science with
the University of Liverpool, Liverpool, U.K.
His research interests include cryptography and
blockchain.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

250 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 13, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 2026
Jie Zhang received the Ph.D. degree computer
science from the University of Liverpool. Liverpool,
U.K., in 2018.
Currently, she is an Associate Professor with
Xi’an Jiaotong-Liverpool University, Suzhou,
China. Her research interests include cryptography
and cyberspace security.
Ka Lok Man received the Dr. Eng. degree in elec-
tronic engineering from Politecnico di Torino, Turin,
Italy, in 1998, and the Ph.D. degree in computer
science from Technische Universiteit Eindhoven,
Eindhoven, The Netherlands, in 2006.
Currently, he is a Professor with Xi’an Jiaotong-
Liverpool University, Suzhou, China. His research
interests include formal methods and process alge-
bras, embedded system design and testing, AI, and
photovoltaics.
Steven Guan received the B.Sc. degree in mathe-
matics from Tsinghua University, Beijing, China,
and the M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees in computer
science from the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
Currently, he is a Professor with Xi’an Jiaotong-
Liverpool University (XJTLU), Suzhou, China. He
served as the Head of the Department position
with XJTLU for more than four years, creating the
department from scratch and now in shape. Before
joining XJTLU, he was a Tenured Professor and
Chair in intelligent systems with Brunel University, U.K. His research interests
include machine learning, computati onal intelligence, big data analytics,
mobile commerce, modeling, networ king, personalization, security, coding
theory, and pseudorandom number generation.
Nguyen Van Huynh (Member, IEEE) received the
Ph.D. degree in electrical and computer engineering
from the University of Technology Sydney, Sydney,
Australia, in 2022.
Currently, he is a Lecturer with the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Electronics, University
of Liverpool (UoL), Liverpool, U.K. Before joining
UoL, he was a Postdoctoral Research Associate with
the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engi-
neering, Imperial College London, London, U.K.
His research interests include mobile computing,
5G/6G, IoT, and machine learning.
Dr. Van Huynh is currently an Associate Editor of IEEE T
RANSACTIONS ON
MOBILE COMPUTING and IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VEHICULAR TECHNOLOGY.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Nevada Las Vegas. Downloaded on March 23,2026 at 17:58:38 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 