SENSH: a blockchain-based searchable
encrypted data sharing scheme in smart
healthcare
Song Luo 1, Lihuan Tan 1, Tan Hu 2 and Maoshuang Hu 1
1 College of Computer Science and Engineering, Chongqing University of Technology,
Chongqing, China
2 Key Laboratory of Public Big Data Security Technology, College of Mobile Communication,
Chongqing, China
ABSTRACT
The rapid development of the Internet of Things technology has led to a boom in the
adoption of intelligent healthcare management systems in the healthcare industry.
However, it has also highlighted key issues such as security, privacy, and ef ﬁcient
query of medical data. Traditional methods for querying medical data suffer from
severe data leakage risks, low query performance, and excessive storage space. This
article proposes a comprehensive Secure ENcrypted Search for Health Scheme
(SENSH) solution based on consortium blockchain and searchable encryption to
address these challenges. SENSH enables ef ﬁcient authorization management
through Bloom ﬁlters, ensuring fast querying of large datasets by authorized users
while saving storage space. It uses off-chain Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)
and on-chain storage management for data protection, signi ﬁcantly reducing the
likelihood of data exposure. The system is also enhanced with event triggering and
logging mechanisms to support real-time monitoring and data tracing to meet audit
compliance requirements. It provides version control and timestamping to
accommodate dynamic data updates, employs an obfuscationfactor to prevent
tag-based original data content leakage, and supports dynamic updating of tags to
accommodate different access requirements. Experimental results show that SENSH
excels in authorization management, privacy protection, defense against tampering,
and anti-replay and Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS). Compared with existing
schemes, SENSH has signi ﬁcant advantages in terms of gas consumption,
computation cost, and execution time. It is particularly suited for the protection and
efﬁcient query of medical and health data.
Subjects Cryptography, Databases, Security and Privacy, Internet of Things, Blockchain
Keywords Searchable encryption, Blockchain, Smart healthcare health management, Internet of
Things (IOT), Data privacy protection
INTRODUCTION
The smart healthcare system (SHS), a niche within the Internet of Things (IoT), is a
data-centric framework for healthcare services. It combines multiple technologies, such as
blockchain, artiﬁcial intelligence, cloud computing, and the Internet of Things to connect
patient data, medical devices, and healthcare services ( Bao, Qiu & Cheng, 2022 ) into an
intelligent and convenient system. SHS aims to provide accurate health monitoring,
comprehensive diagnostic services, integrated healthcare solutions, and preventive care.
How to cite this article Luo S, Tan L, Hu T, Hu M. 2025. SENSH: a blockchain-based searchable encrypted data sharing scheme in smart
healthcare. PeerJ Comput. Sci. 11:e3166 DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166
Submitted 18 April 2025
Accepted 6 August 2025
Published 8 September 2025
Corresponding author
Lihuan Tan,
tanlihuan0509@foxmail.com
Academic editor
Vicente Alarcon-Aquino
Additional Information and
Declarations can be found on
page 31
DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166
Copyright
2025 Luo et al.
Distributed under
Creative Commons CC-BY 4.0

The types of data processed by SHS mainly include electronic medical records (EMR)
(Li et al., 2021a ), imaging data, and health monitoring data, which are large and complex.
Real-time health monitoring data are collected from smart wearables ( Guan et al., 2022 )
such as smart bracelets, smart patches, and smart shoes. As depicted in Fig. 1, IoT
integrates these into the healthcare system, enabling dynamic health tracking and direct
data integration into electronic healthcare systems. This integration deepens the
convergence of health monitoring with medical records, helping healthcare organizations
more accurately analyze patient health and adjust treatment plans and prevention
strategies in real time. Even as the healthcare industry continues to integrate diverse
technologies to drive development, the sharing and managing of healthcare data and
privacy remain areas for improvement. In the context of big data, ensuring ef ﬁcient data
sharing and retrieval while maintaining privacy is a critical challenge ( Yang et al., 2019 )i n
intelligent healthcare.
Blockchain (Shen et al., 2024 ), a decentralized distributed ledger technology, ensures
data immutability and transparency by encapsulating information into blocks and linking
them chronologically to form a chain structure ( Qu et al., 2024 ). However, the blockchain
stores all information in a public ledger, which means anyone can view its contents, failing
to meet the stringent requirements for data privacy protection in healthcare systems.
Moreover, traditional search methods rely on retrieving and matching plaintext
information to obtain the required data, an approach fraught with vulnerabilities. Since
the data is not encrypted, it is highly susceptible to theft, copying, leakage, or
tampering by external attacks or internal operators, directly exposing it to unauthorized
access risks.
To address these issues, the integration of searchable encryption (SE) technology
(Jiang et al., 2021 ) allows for the effective searching and querying of data even when it is
encrypted, thus enabling the secure retrieval of sensitive data. Searchable encryption
IOT  network
SHS
Smartwatch
Smart Band
Smart Glasses
Smart Patches
Smart Shoes Smart Helmet
Personal medical
records
Health
monitoring  data
Basic Personal
Information
Individual
treatment  plan
data sharing
data sharin
g
data sharing
data sharing
Figure 1 Architecture of SHS with IOT. Full-size DOI: 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166/ ﬁg-1
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 2/34

robustly safeguards data privacy and signi ﬁcantly mitigates the risk of data leakage.
Therefore, by combining blockchain and searchable encryption technologies and
leveraging their respective strengths, a secure, ﬂexible, and controllable data management
solution can be provided for intelligent medical and health management systems. This
synergy promotes the dual primary objectives of secure sharing and ef ﬁcient utilization of
medical data ( Wu et al., 2023 ).
The article proposes Secure ENcrypted Search for Health Scheme (SENSH), an
asymmetric searchable encryption scheme for blockchain-based smart medical healthcare
management systems. The scheme integrates data security, privacy protection, and
efﬁcient querying, solving the challenges of sensitive data leakage and dif ﬁcult sharing. It
provides a user rights management mechanism that ensures only authorized users can
access and query data. Speci ﬁcally, the system prevents unauthorized access and data
leakage by authenticating through an authentication process that issues search tokens to
data visitors. In the process of data storage and transmission, the scheme adopts the
interaction mode of on-chain and off-chain collaboration. First, the patient ’s publicizable
plaintext information is placed on the cloud server to store the record; then, the symmetric
Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) encryption algorithm is utilized under the chain to
encrypt the sensitive plaintext information, and the generated ciphertext data is then
re-encrypted by the cloud ’s agent and stored to the cloud. This process ensures the
integrity and immutability of sensitive data, while providing convenience for subsequent
security queries. To enable searchability of ciphertext data, traditional methods often rely
on dictionary collections for key-value pair queries. However, with exponential growth of
data, the storage requirements of dictionary collections escalate, creating a signi ﬁcant
bottleneck in terms of storage resources and computational ef ﬁciency. To address this
problem, the system incorporates Bloom ﬁlters to improve storage and query efﬁciency. As
an ef ﬁcient data structure, the Bloom ﬁlter minimizes storage requirements while
maintaining query accuracy by mapping encrypted keywords to bit arrays, effectively
increasing retrieval ef ﬁciency and reducing computational costs. The optimized Bloom
ﬁlter ensures compliance with privacy and security requirements while providing
resource-efﬁcient and effective query services.
The main contributions of this article are as follows:
. An asymmetric searchable encryption SENSH scheme for a blockchain-based smart
medical health management system is proposed. The scheme integrates blockchain,
searchable encryption, Bloom ﬁlters, and proxy re-encryption techniques. It ensures data
immutability and transparency, enhances data privacy protection, reduces the risk of
data leakage, and enhances the privacy of data sharing.
. A searchable encryption scheme is proposed for on-chain and off-chain cooperative
interaction. The off-chain data is protected by AES symmetric encryption and re-
encryption, and ciphertext data is managed by on-chain storage mechanisms, reducing
the risk of data leakage. The on-chain part implements tag encryption through
asymmetric encryption, where the public key of the data owner encrypts the data tag. At
the same time, the authorized user uses the private key for query operations. The scheme
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 3/34

also supports tag data updating, which enhances the ﬂexibility of data management to
adapt to the access needs in different contexts.
. Operation logs are recorded in real-time through the blockchain ’s event-triggered
function, ensuring event monitoring and traceability to meet the auditing requirements
of healthcare systems. Applying Bloom ﬁlters, version control, and timestamps improves
the efﬁciency of data query and storage utilization. It supports multi-version data
tracking and management to ensure that the system adapts to the dynamic updating
needs of medical data. In addition, introducing an obfuscationfactor mechanism
improves query security and effectively prevents attackers from inferring data content,
thus safeguarding data privacy and security management.
. The efﬁciency and performance of the proposed scheme are evaluated through
experiments, which mainly include storage ef ﬁciency, computation ef ﬁciency, and gas
cost. The experimental results show that the proposed scheme can signi ﬁcantly improve
the query ef ﬁciency and reduce the storage overhead under the premise of guaranteeing
data privacy, and shows better performance in the aspects of authorization management,
data generation and storage, and event logging, with better scalability and
responsiveness.
The remainder of this article is structured as follows: ‘Related work ’ reviews relevant
work and current solutions. ‘Background’ describes the essential prerequisites for our
proposed scheme, focusing on technologies like blockchain and searchable encryption that
form its basis. The ‘System Overview’ provides an overview of the system architecture,
including the framework and security model. The discussion of ‘Algorithm and
Experimental Analysis ’ discusses the scheme ’s structure, main algorithms, experimental
results, security, and performance analysis. The ﬁnal section summarizes the work and
suggests directions for future work.
RELATED WORK
In recent years, as the medical data digitization process has advanced and the demand for
privacy protection has surged, the integration of blockchain and searchable encryption
technology in healthcare has garnered signi ﬁcant interest. Searchable encryption (SE)
enables keyword-based search over encrypted data without revealing sensitive content, and
has become essential in protecting privacy in outsourced healthcare systems. A number of
studies have explored the combination of blockchain and SE to support secure and
traceable data sharing. However, most existing works focus on one or two aspects such as
data immutability, encrypted storage, or basic access control, while overlooking critical
requirements such as ef ﬁcient on-chain authorization, fast encrypted query processing,
and comprehensive attack resistance. These limitations motivate the development of more
integrated and ef ﬁcient frameworks like SENSH.
Azaria et al. (2016) introduced a decentralized electronic medical record management
system leveraging blockchain for authentication, responsibility tracing, and data sharing,
with a modular design and a proof-of-work mechanism that rewards participants for
anonymized data provision, ensuring data security and network sustainability. However,
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 4/34

direct blockchain storage of encrypted data might lead to storage and computational
constraints as data volumes grow. Xia et al. (2017) presented the MeDShare system to
address healthcare data sharing among big data custodians in a trustless environment,
ensuring data security and traceability through cloud storage, but the decentralized nature
of blockchain and data integrity veri ﬁcation increase system computation and storage
needs, necessitating a privacy-data sharing balance. Nguyen et al. (2019) proposed a
blockchain and interplanetary ﬁle system (IPFS) —an integrated framework for secure
electronic health record (EHR) sharing on mobile cloud platforms. However, this
combination raises cost concerns, and strict access control could impede emergency data
access. Chase & Kamara (2010) developed a structured encryption model for distributed
data storage. However, it needs help with querying ef ﬁciency amidst large labeled datasets,
and direct chain storage fails to achieve accurate data distribution. Kamara &
Papamanthou (2013) advanced a sub-linear, dynamically searchable encryption scheme
using multi-core parallel computation and red-black-tree structures suitable for updating
medical data. However, query ef ﬁciency still needs to improve in complex systems.
In Boneh et al. (2004) and Curtmola et al. (2006) , separately exploring searchable public
keys and symmetric encryption implements cryptographic data search operations.
However, traditional search schemes risk privacy leakage, especially with multiple queries
that might reveal sensitive patient information. Yue et al. (2016) proposed an HGD
architecture with a smart contract and ICS for patient-controlled healthcare data sharing.
However, it needs more support for dynamic privilege updates, failing to meet evolving
real-world authorization needs. Chen et al. (2019) designed a ciphertext-based electronic
surveillance recording and sharing system, constructing EHR indexes for privacy and
efﬁcient retrieval. However, it is limited to static data and cannot accommodate dynamic
updates. Miao et al. (2021) introduced a multi-authority Multi-Authority Attribute-Based
Keyword Search (MABKS) system to overcome performance bottlenecks in
single-authority Ciphertext-Policy Attribute-Based Keyword Search (CP-ABKS).
However, it lacks ﬁne-grained access control and ﬂexible queries, limiting privacy and
scalability. The Blockchain-Based Search Attribute-Based Encryption (BC-SABE) scheme
in Liu et al. (2020) addresses IoT data storage and access control with a decentralized
critical management approach combining blockchain and attribute-based cryptography.
However, it faces challenges with resource-constrained IoT devices, multi-user critical
management complexity, and blockchain ’s computational demands, showing signi ﬁcant
limitations in dynamic updates and multi-keyword queries. Lastly, Mamta et al. (2021)
combines Attribute-Based Searchable Encryption (ABSE) and blockchain consensus
mechanisms for Cloud-Based Healthcare Cyber-Physical System (CCPS) to ensure data
conﬁdentiality and privacy, but high computational costs, especially with large data
volumes, can impact system performance.
Li et al. (2021b) proposes a blockchain-based veri ﬁable public key encryption scheme
that utilizes the TrueBit network to outsource the veri ﬁcation task, ensures the validity of
search results, and realizes fair payment between data owners and users through smart
contracts. However, the scheme relies on the third-party veri ﬁcation nodes of TrueBit,
which involves trust risks; meanwhile, the high gas consumption of smart contracts limits
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 5/34

the efﬁciency of large-scale data scenarios, and the complexity of the ﬁne-grained payment
mechanism for multiple data owners is high, which increases the system overhead. In
Ali et al. (2022) , a hybrid deep neural network framework combining group theory and
binary spring search algorithm is designed for intrusion detection and security search in
the Internet of Medical Things (IIoT). The scheme guarantees secure storage and search of
patient health records through blockchain and homomorphic encryption, and improves
malicious attack detection with the help of deep neural networks. However, the scheme has
high computational overhead, which makes it dif ﬁcult to be deployed in
resource-constrained IIoT devices; the algorithm complexity is high, which affects the
emergency response in medical scenarios; and the ﬂexibility of multi-keyword search and
the support of dynamic data update are insuf ﬁcient. Xiang & Zhao (2022) proposes a
blockchain-based search attribute encryption scheme to safeguard the data integrity of
e-health systems and realize ﬁne-grained access control through blockchain. However, the
performance of the scheme decreases signi ﬁcantly with the increase in policy
complexity, which increases the storage and communication overhead and affects the
scalability of the system. In Liu et al. (2023) , a blockchain-based search agent signing and
conﬁdentiality scheme is designed to achieve centralized authorization management of
medical data by patients using identity-based agent signatures while guaranteeing the
integrity and traceability of search results. However, the scheme increases the
operational burden on the user side, and the storage and veri ﬁcation overhead of the
blockchain is large, making it dif ﬁcult to operate ef ﬁciently in resource-constrained
environments.
While considerable progress has been made in blockchain-based privacy protection and
access control, few studies have provided an integrated solution that simultaneously
addresses ef ﬁcient on-chain authorization, privacy-preserving search, performance
optimization, and attack resilience. This gap highlights the need for a lightweight yet
comprehensive framework tailored to smart healthcare environments, which motivates the
design of our solution presented in the following section.
BACKGROUND
This section delves into the pivotal techniques for crafting an intelligent, searchable, and
readily shareable healthcare management system. It harnesses blockchain-based
asymmetric searchable encryption, augmented with Bloom ﬁlters, proxy re-encryption
mechanisms, and symmetric encryption algorithms to facilitate ef ﬁcient healthcare data
management and secure data sharing. These technologies safeguard data security and
privacy protection throughout data transmission and sharing.
Searchable encryption
Searchable encryption (SE) (Wang et al., 2022) is a cryptographic technique that empowers
users to execute search operations on encrypted data without decryption. This technique
permits data visitors to search using encrypted queries and match them against encrypted
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 6/34

indexes or labels without decrypting the underlying data. The fundamental operational
principle is as follows:
let Data represent the original data, En(Data) the encrypted form of the data, Label(En
(Data)) the index or label associated with the encrypted data, Query the search operation,
and En(Query) the encrypted query condition. Searchable encryption enables the
computation of Query(En(Data), Label(En(Data))) to yield search results, all without
decrypting the original data.
Searchable encryption technology facilitates ef ﬁcient querying of encrypted data,
thereby preserving data privacy. It addresses the limitation of traditional encryption
algorithms that do not support direct querying of encrypted data. It is extensively utilized
in cloud storage, distributed systems, and other environments demanding stringent data
security. Depending on the encryption techniques and access control mechanisms,
common types of searchable encryption include symmetric searchable encryption (SSE)
(Li et al., 2024 ), asymmetric searchable encryption (ASE) ( Niu et al., 2020 ), public key
searchable encryption (PEKS) ( Xu et al., 2018 ), and attribute-based searchable encryption
(ABSE) ( Liu et al., 2022 ). SSE is ideal for small-scale applications, where the data owner
and user share a standard key, offering ef ﬁcient query performance and minimal
computational overhead. However, more is needed for multi-user scenarios. ASE enhances
access control ﬂexibility through public-key encryption and private-key querying, making
it suitable for multi-user environments but with comparatively lower ef ﬁciency. PEKS
encrypts data with the recipient ’s public key, and the recipient uses the private key for
querying, which is appropriate for multiparty sharing scenarios and offers heightened
security, albeit with increased query ef ﬁciency and overhead. ABSE manages data access
rights through user attributes, supporting ﬁne-grained access control, and is well-suited for
scenarios with intricate access requirements but incurs higher computational and storage
costs. Consequently, selecting an appropriate searchable encryption scheme involves
balancing security, query ef ﬁciency, and computational overhead against speci ﬁc
application needs.
Bloom filter
The Bloom ﬁlter, proposed by Burton Bloom in 1970 ( Geravand & Ahmadi, 2013 ), is an
efﬁcient spatial data structure for quickly detecting whether an element belongs to a large
data set (Dasgupta et al., 2018). It is realized by a bit array and a hash function; the bit array
stores binary data, and the hash function maps elements to the bit array. When adding an
element, the bit array is labeled by the hash function; when querying, the labeled bits are
checked, and if all are 1, the element may exist; if 0 exists, the element does not exist. The
Bloom ﬁlter ensures no false negatives, but false positives may exist. Its false positive rate
depends on the size of the bit array and the number of hash functions, and a reasonable
conﬁguration can optimize the space and query ef ﬁciency. This structure is shown in
Fig. 2 . The key query initiated by the client is ﬁrst probabilistically determined by the
Bloom ﬁlter, and then the layered ﬁltering logic signi ﬁcantly reduces the amount of
redundant queries and improves the system throughput ef ﬁciency.
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 7/34

Proxy re-encryption
Proxy re-encryption (PRE) proposed by Zhou et al. (2023) and Tian et al. (2023) is a
public-key cryptography that facilitates the transformation of encrypted data from one
encryption key to another without revealing the underlying plaintext or decryption keys.
This mechanism is critical to privacy because it allows a proxy to convert ciphertext
originally encrypted under user A ’s key to be readable under user B ’s key using a
re-encryption key, and the proxy remains unaware of the plaintext content.
As depicted in Fig. 3, the proxy does not require knowledge of the original data,
ensuring that plaintext access is not compromised. In this schema, En_A and En_B
represent the original ciphertext and the re-encrypted ciphertext, respectively,
while K_A, K_B, and K_C are their corresponding private keys. K_R denotes the
re-encryption key, and transforming one ciphertext to another is called the ReEncrypt
operation.
In practical scenarios, cloud servers can serve as proxy entities, assisting blockchain
systems in implementing decentralized access control. It allows data owners to
dynamically manage data access rights by delegating the cloud server to carry out
re-encryption operations and securely distribute encrypted data across the blockchain
network, a solution particularly apt for medical applications. Consequently, data owners
TextInquire  key
No
Return Result
Yes
No
Start
 Bloom  Filter
 Client 1......n
Exist  key?
Yes
Cache
Exist  key?
Database
Exist  key?
Update Cache
Yes
No
Return Null End
Figure 2 Bloom ﬁlter principle ﬂowchart. Full-size DOI: 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166/ ﬁg-2
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 8/34

are relieved of the need to distribute the decryption key to each doctor; instead, they
control access by empowering the cloud server to execute re-encryption tasks, safeguarding
the privacy and security of shared data. With formidable computational resources, cloud
servers can adeptly manage re-encryption computations, substantially minimizing
operational delays, enhancing system performance, and bolstering security and privacy
during data sharing.
AES symmetric encryption algorithm
Symmetric encryption, a foundational method in cryptography, utilizes the same key for
encrypting and decrypting data. Compared to asymmetric encryption, symmetric
encryption offers signi ﬁcantly higher computational ef ﬁciency, especially when dealing
with large-scale medical records or IoT-generated data streams in smart healthcare
environments. Among the well-known symmetric encryption algorithms are AES (Usman,
Jan & He, 2017 ) and Data Encryption Standard (DES) ( Tang et al., 2018 ), which has
become the de facto standard in secure data protection. Our scheme opts for the AES
algorithm due to its superior security and computational ef ﬁciency, which align with our
system’s performance criteria. Speci ﬁcally, we adopt AES-256, which employs a 256-bit
key to provide strong resistance against brute-force attacks and enhanced con ﬁdentiality
protection for sensitive health information. AES processes data in ﬁxed-size blocks, each
measuring 128 bits (or 16 bytes), and it accommodates key lengths of 128, 192, or 256 bits.
Its compatibility with hardware acceleration further contributes to low-latency encryption
on edge and cloud platforms, making it well-suited for use in smart healthcare systems.
The encryption implementation principle is detailed as follows:
(1) First, initialize the plaintext and divide it into 16 bytes for encryption.
(2) The initial transformation formula is as follows:
M½i; j/C138¼ M0 /C8 K½i; j/C138 : (1)
(3) The byte substitution formula is as follows:
S½i; j/C138¼ S BoxðM½i; j/C138Þ : (2)
C(K_C)
A(En_A,K_A,K_R) B(En_B,K_B)
K_R
ReEncrypt(En_A,K_R(A->B))
×
Figure 3 Proxy re-encryption schematic. Full-size DOI: 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166/ ﬁg-3
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 9/34

(4) Perform row shifting based on byte substitution, i.e., the ﬁrst row is unchanged, the
second row is shifted left by one, the third row is shifted left by two, and the fourth row
is shifted left by three. Finally the latest state is marked as S 1½i; j/C138 .
(5) The column mixing formula is as follows:
C½i; j/C138¼
02 03 01 01
01 02 03 01
01 01 02 03
03 01 01 02
2
664
3
775 /C2 S1½i; j/C138 : (3)
(6) The round key addition formula is as follows:
S/C3 ½i; j/C138¼ C½i; j/C138/C8 K½i; j/C138 : (4)
(7) The ﬁnal result of the ciphertext is as follows:
C ¼ EK ðMÞ¼ S/C3 ½i; j/C138 (5)
where M0 is the initial state of the plaintext, M½i; j/C138 is the bytes in the input state matrix,
K½i; j/C138 is the bytes in the round key, S Box is the ﬁxed substitution table, S ½i; j/C138 is a byte
in the output state matrix, S /C3 ½i; j/C138 is a byte in the current state matrix, E K Indicates that
the plaintext M is encrypted using key K and C is the output ciphertext.
In contrast to hashing, AES functions as a two-way encryption algorithm, enabling the
reversal of encrypted data back into its original form when required. Conversely, hashing
algorithms are one-way and non-reversible, making them more appropriate for ensuring
data integrity rather than data recovery.
In addition to the aforementioned technical aspects, ensuring the ef ﬁciency, robustness,
and deployability of the SENSH framework in real-world healthcare scenarios is equally
critical. To this end, SENSH adopts a modular and lightweight component design
philosophy. In the on-chain authorization component, we introduce Bloom ﬁlters to
reduce gas consumption and support dynamic updates to authorization policies.
Additionally, the system employs transaction timestamps and strict authentication
processes to prevent replay attacks, and introduces Bloom ﬁlter checks at the
contract entry point to preemptively block invalid requests, effectively mitigating
potential Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) threats. These designs ensure that SENSH
maintains good availability and security in dynamic, multi-user smart healthcare
environments.
SYSTEM OVERVIEW
This section outlines the framework of the proposed SENSH scheme, which blends
searchable encryption with blockchain technology for medical and health
applications. The overall system model and its operational ﬂow are ﬁrst presented,
clarifying the roles and interactions of each module in data management. Next, the
practical deployment of the model in healthcare scenarios is explored,
emphasizing its contribution in enhancing data security, privacy protection, and
data retrieval. Then, the last subsection delves into the concrete implementation of a
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 10/34

blockchain smart contract system, highlighting two key contracts. Before continuing the
discussion, this section introduces the parameter notation used throughout, as detailed
in Table 1.
System model
For the SENSH scheme, the implementation system consists of the following four main
entities, as shown in Fig. 4.
Data owners (DO)
The data owner (DO), often a healthcare organization, patient, or individual, holds the
reins as the data custodian in the application scenario. Distinguishing between sensitive
and public categories based on privacy levels, encompassing personal information,
electronic medical records, health monitoring data, and personalized treatment plans. The
DO’s responsibility includes uploading raw public data to the cloud, with sensitive data
encrypted using AES to safeguard privacy and ensure secure storage. This encrypted data is
Table 1 Symbol summary chart.
Notation Meaning
SE Searchable encryption (contract)
BF Bloom ﬁlter (contract)
DO Data owner
DU Data user
CB Consortium blockchain
CS Cloud servers
off_chain Python program under the chain
K Blockchain-generated key parameters
k′ Re-encryption key generated by the DO
ki Random key generated by K
Version Version number
Count Counter value
Endata Encrypted data
REndata Re-encrypted data
n The number of elements
k The number of hash functions
m The length of the bit array
M_U Malicious user
Index Speci ﬁc position of the BF median array
FILTER_WORD_SIZE Number of digits per unit in BF
Label Extracted keyword identi ﬁcation
Token Search for valves
SENSH Secure ENcrypted search for health scheme
Obfuscationfactor Obfuscating parameters referenced by the data
LEDD A data mapping table that encrypts data
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 11/34

then re-encrypted in the cloud for double security and subsequently indexed through a
searchable mechanism that allows authorized users to perform keyword-based searches
without decrypting the data. Smart contracts delineate the permissions and query
conditions for data access, ensuring only authorized users can query the encrypted data.
Consequently, the DO is pivotal in forging a secure, transparent, and controlled
data-sharing environment within healthcare systems.
Data users (DU)
The data user (DU), which may consist of doctors, research organizations, or insurance
companies, is the entity that initiates data access and query requests. The DU employs the
ciphertext search function to retrieve encrypted data associated with their privileges
without decryption. The retrieved data is typically encrypted or processed, precluding
direct access to plaintext. However, to perform a search, the DU must possess the
appropriate permissions, including the acquisition of a token, prior to submitting the
search request. This requirement signi ﬁcantly enhances data security and reinforces the
effectiveness of access control measures.
Cloud  Server
Data Owners
Block
Consortium  Blockchain
3ͨCiphertext converts(k`) ciphertext`;
Stored the label and ciphertext` in LEED
4ͨSend the ciphertext`
hash and label
5ͨRequest data 11ͨRequest k`---decrypt
6ͨReturns the permission requirements 12ͨVerify identity澝return k`
9ͨReturns token
7ͨSend search and
authorization requests
10ͨReturn matching ciphertext`
Data Users
8ͨRequest ciphertext`
Basic Personal
Information
Personal electronic
medical records
2ͨUpload encrypt sensitive data and label;
authorization to act as an agent
1ͨUpload public data
13ͨGet plaintext
Health monitoring data
(Anonymization)
5ͨGenerate label and token
stored in LEED
Figure 4 Architecture of the proposed scheme for SENSH. Full-size DOI: 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166/ ﬁg-4
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 12/34

Consortium blockchain (CB)
A consortium blockchain (CB) network ( Li et al., 2018 ) established by organizations with
shared interests allows nodes like hospitals, insurance companies, and research institutes
to manage, store, and query data in a controlled environment. This network initializes the
system and sets global data storage and access control parameters, enabling DO to regulate
data user queries through intelligent contracts. Data labels and ciphertext hashes are stored
on-chain, accessible only to authorized users, with all chain operations being tamper-proof
and auditable, facilitating subsequent monitoring and tracking through contract-triggered
event logs.
Cloud server (CS)
The cloud server (CS) serves as a proxy in the blockchain healthcare system ( Wu et al.,
2024), offering computation, storage, and proxy re-encryption services. It balances privacy
protection with ef ﬁcient data querying for organizations hosting data and managing keys.
The CS’s primary responsibilities include proxy re-encryption, intermediating between
DOs and users to grant access to authorized parties without DO involvement, streamlining
key management, and enhancing privacy. It processes cryptographic keyword queries,
matches tags, and returns re-encrypted results that meet authorization criteria without
plaintext exposure, improving query ef ﬁciency and privacy. The CS also stores
cryptographic tags and ciphertexts to support contract execution, tag generation, and
updates, ensuring smooth permission veri ﬁcation and reducing the burden on the
blockchain main chain. Overall, the CS bolsters data security management and enhances
querying and data-sharing ef ﬁciency within the privacy-protected healthcare blockchain
system.
The detailed description of each step in Fig. 4 is as follows.
Step (1): DO directly uploads public data to the cloud and stores it in plaintext.
Step (2): during the initialization of the federation chain system, the sensitive data is
symmetrically encrypted off-chain using the global parameters generated by the system,
and the generated ciphertext data and the tags generated by hash operation are stored in
the cloud.
Step (3): the DO generates k ′, and then the DO authorizes the CS as an agent to
re-encrypt the data using the re-encryption key; and stores the tag and the re-encrypted
ciphertext as a dictionary structure for subsequent retrieval.
Step (4): the re-encrypted ciphertext hash and label are stored synchronously in the
chain for backup and tamper prevention.
Step (5): the DU initiates a request to the DO to share the medical data to obtain the
data plaintext.
Step (6): DO returns relevant information that meets the scope of authorization based
on the received request.
Step (7): the DU provides search keywords to the contract and initiates permission and
query requests.
Step (8): the blockchain sends the search request to the CS immediately after
veriﬁcation.
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 13/34

Step (9): the blockchain returns the authorization information and token to the DU to
facilitate subsequent authentication.
Step (10): CS returns the ciphertext matching the big token to DU according to the
search operation.
Step (11): the DU cannot directly decrypt the obtained ciphertext data. In order to
protect the initial key, the DU needs to request a re-encryption key k ′ from the DO.
Step (12): DO veriﬁes the identity information of DU and returns k ′ to DU after passing
the veriﬁcation.
Step (13): the DU decrypts the ciphertext and obtains the plaintext data by using the
obtained ciphertext and k ′.
Intelligent healthcare scenarios
Hospitals, integral to the aggregation of medical data, encrypt sensitive records and
personal health information using the AES algorithm to produce ciphertext that is not
directly readable. Following encryption, these data are hashed with associated keywords to
create searchable labels and indexes. As DO, hospitals generate re-encryption keys that are
crucial for proxies to perform subsequent re-encryption operations. The encrypted data is
then uploaded to cloud servers for storage, with the cloud ’s role limited to storage and
re-encryption, without the need for plaintext access. Blockchains enforce access rules
through smart contracts, which also record access logs for auditing and future reference.
When doctors or healthcare entities need to query speci ﬁc data, they must provide labels
and tokens to initiate the contract ’s search function. After verifying the identity and
tokens, the contract authorizes the query and instructs the cloud to retrieve the data. Even
with access to matched encrypted data, users require the cloud ’s assistance to convert it
into a readable format without decrypting the original data, thus preserving the security of
medical data. Once converted, data users can decrypt the data to plaintext for analysis or
diagnostic purposes within their authorized scope. The entire sequence, from data upload
to decryption, is recorded on the blockchain to prevent tampering, with logs available for
review, monitoring, and compliance. The creation of data tags and search token
generation are facilitated through a hybrid on-chain/off-chain interaction model, as
illustrated in Fig. 5 .
Smart contract system
In this system, the smart contracts within the blockchain framework are designed to carry
out the core functions of searchable encryption technology, speci ﬁcally through two
pivotal contracts: SearchableEncryption (SE) and BloomFilter (BF). The BF contract
employs the Bloom ﬁlter mechanism, which is instrumental in the authorization process
and label generation. It is particularly effective for managing large datasets without
substantial storage requirements and enhances query ef ﬁciency and storage space
utilization. Meanwhile, the SE contract is tasked with implementing the core techniques of
searchable encryption. This includes enhancing query security by introducing an
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 14/34

Block
k1,k2......kn(ki)K
Mysql
Data AES ciphertext1,ciphertext2...(ciphertext i)
SE.generateLabel
(ki,ciphertext i) Label(1,2.....n) SE.generateToken
(ki,version,count,k(i+1))
k(i+1)
version
count
Token(1,2.....n)
on-chain
off-chain
Figure 5 Label and token generation phase. Full-size DOI: 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166/ ﬁg-5
off_chain DO Event List SE BF DU
1.Request Data
2.Returns Requirements
7.Authorization Event
5.Deploy
6.Call
9.Call
3.Verify User Identity
4.Unauthorized
10.LabelGenerated Event
11.Add Label
12.LabelUpdate Event
13.Return Label
14.Call
15.TokenGenerated Event
16.Return Token
17.Call Search
18.Match
19.Return Ciphertext
20.Decrypt
21.Return Plaintext
8.Return Authorization
Figure 6 Contract call timing chart. Full-size DOI: 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166/ ﬁg-6
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 15/34

obfuscationfactor (Zhang et al., 2024 ), supporting the ﬂexible management of data by
allowing updates to labeled data, and providing robust access control functionalities, such
as identity authorization.
Next, the functional speci ﬁcs of the contracts are elaborated. Figure 6 depicts a
chronological ﬂowchart of the end-to-end data encryption and search matching
procedure. This sequence illustrates the operational steps and the interactions
between the smart contracts that handle the search and the encryption and decryption
of data.
SE compiled and deployed to the blockchain by DO, it contains authorizeUser(),
revokeUser(), generateLabel(), updateLabel(), generateToken(), search() methods, and
some auxiliary query get functions like getAuthorizedUsers() and getResult() methods.
authorizeUser(): authorizes a new user, adding it to the authorizedUsersFilter and
authorizedAddresses lists, enabling the new user to query and modify data.
revokeUser(): revokes the user’s privileges and removes them from the BloomFilter and
authorizedAddresses arrays, with an event logging action for traceability.
generateLabel(): generates a label and encrypted value, which is computed from the key
(K) and the data value Endata to generate the label (using a keccak256 hash) and stored
in the LEDD map.
updateLabel(): update the data content of the label, user can replace the encrypted
value of the existing label and record the new timestamp.
generateToken(): generate token according to the label, used to identify and validate
speciﬁc data. token contains information such as label, version number, count value,
etc. The hash is calculated using keccak256 to ensure security.
search(): check if the label exists by Bloom ﬁlter; if it exists, return the label in LEDD
[label]; otherwise return bytes32(0). Obfuscation data is generated in the query result
by an obfuscationfactor to increase privacy protection.
BF as the interface of SE contract, it is used to detect whether the element is in the
collection or not, and contains the following functions: hash(), add(), exists() and
remove().
hash(): internal hash function, used for elements and hash seed seed mixed encoding to
generate hash values.
add(): traversal hash function, the corresponding position in the bit array will be set to
1, indicating that the element exists.
exists(): traversing the hash function, check whether the corresponding bits are all 1, if
there is a 0 means that the element does not exist and return false, all the bits are 1 then
return true, indicating that the element may exist (there is a possibility of
misjudgment).
remove(): used to simulate the deletion function of the counting Bloom ﬁlter, similar to
add(), use the hash function to ﬁnd the corresponding position and reset the bits to 0
by & ¼/C24 1 /C28 indexmod FILTER WORD SIZEðÞðÞ , indicating that the element has
been removed.
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 16/34

ALGORITHM AND EXPERIMENTAL ANAL YSIS
In this section, we delve into the core algorithmic design of the SENSH scheme as applied
to healthcare systems, providing a detailed exposition. We assess its performance and
scrutinize its strengths and weaknesses within practical application contexts. Additionally,
the viability of the SENSH scheme is established through comparative analysis with
existing schemes. To conclude, a thorough security analysis of the framework is conducted
to af ﬁrm its robustness.
Primary algorithms
The scheme of this article consists of the following core algorithms:
User authorization and revocation
Upon receiving a user address, the system initiates the process by computing the hash
value of the address, denoted as userHash. It then veri ﬁes whether this address is already
present in the authorization ﬁlter. In cases where the user lacks authorization, the
userHash is incorporated into the authorization ﬁlter, and the user ’s address is appended
to the authorizedAddresses list. Following this, the system activates an authorization event
to document the newly authorized user address, thereby ensuring the integrity and
traceability of the authorization process —revocation follows a similar procedure. This
sequence of operations is outlined in Algorithm 1.
Generate label and update
The system crafts a unique Label by utilizing the keyword provided by the user to generate a
hash value k1. This hash is combined with the data value Endata and hashed again to
produce a distinct label. Subsequently, an EncryptedData structure is constructed,
encapsulating the label, re-encrypted value, existence status, and timestamp, and this
structure is stored in the LEDD map. Concurrently, the generated label is appended to the
Algorithm 1 User authorization and revocation.
Input: user (address)
Output: Authorization status and address list
1 Compute userHash ¼ hash (user);
2 if userHash not in authorizedUsersFilter then
3 Add userHash to authorizedUsersFilter;
4 Append user to authorizedAddresses;
5 Emit UserAuthorized (user);
6 end
7 else
8 Remove userHash from authorizedUsersFilter;
9 Remove user from authorizedAddresses;
10 Emit UserRevoked (user);
11 end
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 17/34

allLabels list and recorded in the label ﬁlter. A label generation event is initiated, capturing
the label and the encrypted value for record-keeping. This process is detailed inAlgorithm 2.
Generate token
Upon receiving the label, the system generates a unique token based on it, which
incorporates the version number, a count, and a hash value. The process begins by
retrieving the token information associated with the label, incrementing the counter by
one, and then generating the hash value tokenValue using both the label and a keyword k2.
The system then initiates a token generation event to log the label and the newly created
tokenValue. This sequence of actions is depicted in Algorithm 3.
Search
Upon receiving a tag, the system conducts an initial check to determine if the tag is present
within the ﬁlter. If the tag is con ﬁrmed to exist, the system creates a result dataset named
searchResults, which designates the ﬁrst position to either the actual tag or leaves it blank.
Following this, random obfuscation results are generated using an obfuscationfactor to
populate the remaining entries in searchResults, which house the encrypted values linked
to the respective tags. In conclusion, the fully compiled searchResults are returned, as
detailed in Algorithm 4.
Experimental setup
This experiment leverages Remix-IDE to develop on-chain smart contracts within a
Windows 10 environment. The blockchain development toolkit includes Ganache, geth,
Algorithm 2 Generate label and update.
Input: K (string), Endata (string), REndata (bytes32)
Output: Generated label added to ﬁlter, stored encrypted data
1 Compute k1 ¼ hash ( K, “k1”)
2 Compute label ¼ hashðk1; EndataÞ
3 Store label data in LEDD with REndata, exists ¼ true, timestamp ¼ block:timestamp;
4 Append label to allLabels;
5 Add label to labelsFilter;
6 Emit LabelGenerated(label, REndata);
Algorithm 3 Generate token.
Input: label (bytes32)
Output: Generated token value for label, with incremented count
1. token ¼ tokens½label/C138 ;
2. token:count þ¼ 1;
3. Compute k2 ¼ hash (label + “k2”);
4. token:tokenValue ¼ hashðlabel; currentVersion; token:count; k2Þ;
5. Emit TokenGenerated(label, token:tokenValue);
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 18/34

and MetaMask, with Python 3.7 employed for data interaction tasks. Initially, the
environment was set up on a local server equipped with a 10th generation Intel(R) Core
(TM) i5-1035G1 processor (four cores, eight logical processors) using geth. The local
blockchain network was primarily built using a geth node to create a private Ethereum
network; despite the availability of alternative platforms like Besu, this study focused on
deploying and testing contracts within the geth environment. Subsequently, two contracts
were compiled on Remix-IDE and deployed on the geth platform. The experiment utilized
both geth and Ganache for visualizing the execution process and accurately tracking gas
consumption. A Python script was developed using the web3.py library to facilitate
real-time data observation and bolster data statistics and analysis. Similar to the approach
in Saif, Mondal & Biswas (2023), we used Ganache to simulate a private Ethereum network
for deploying and testing our smart contracts. MetaMask was used as a wallet for account
management and transaction signing, facilitating interaction with the local blockchain.
Building on these experimental ﬁndings, we will assess the performance of the SENSH
scheme, scrutinize its strengths and weaknesses within practical application contexts, and
crucially, benchmark it against existing schemes to ascertain its viability. The framework ’s
security is also subject to a comprehensive analysis.
Performance evaluation
The proposed framework begins with the core implementation of encryption and search
capabilities. As the framework undergoes continuous re ﬁnement and enhancement, its
efﬁciency is progressively optimized. The features evolve to reach full maturity, aligning
more closely with the practical needs of real-world applications. The performance
evaluation will be conducted across three aspects: storage ef ﬁciency, computational
efﬁciency, and gas expenditure.
Storage efficiency
The proposed framework’s main storage components include the authorized user list, label
generation information, encrypted data, token information, and user query results. It relies
Algorithm 4 Search.
Input: label (bytes32)
Output: Array of search results, including obfuscated labels
1 if label exists in labelsFilter then
2 Initialize results array with size obfuscationfactor;
3 Set results½0/C138¼ label if label exists in LEDD;
4 for i ¼ 1t o obfuscationfactor /C0 1 do
5 Set results½i/C138¼ hashðlabel; i; block:timestampÞ;
6 end
7 Set searchResult ¼ LEDD½label/C138 :encryptedValue;
8 return results;
9 end
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 19/34

on mapping structures and Bloom ﬁlters for ef ﬁcient data storage, signi ﬁcantly reducing
space requirements. The contract initializes with preset sizes for the Bloom ﬁlter bit array
and the number of hash functions to optimize storage. The authorized user list, managed
by the Bloom ﬁlter, stores authorized users ’ hash values, ensuring high storage ef ﬁciency,
low cost, and quick veri ﬁcation of user rights. The LEDD structure records each label ’s
encrypted data and status information, with labels indexed in the Bloom ﬁlter’s labels ﬁlter
for efﬁcient searchability. Each label generates a unique Token, storing token information
through token mapping. The search function employs an obfuscationfactor to introduce
dummy results, preventing query information leakage. These dummy results are used
transiently to minimize long-term storage overhead.
Computational efficiency
The computational load is primarily distributed across the Bloom ﬁlter hash calculations,
label generation, and the obfuscation involved in search queries. Bloom ﬁlters utilize
multiple hash functions for the add and lookup operations, effectively avoiding the need to
store data for all elements through these functions. While the incorporation of the
obfuscationfactor in the search function does introduce additional computational
complexity, it achieves an effective balance between performance and security. The speci ﬁc
implementation logic is as follows:
the total time cost Ctotal consists of two parts. The cost of off-chain time Coff and the part
of the contract implementation on-chain Con. Among these, the symmetric encryption
AES cost is Tenc, where a, b, and Mlength represent the encryption time per byte, the ﬁxed
initialization time, and the length of the plaintext, respectively. The label generation logic
in the scheme is L ¼ HðHðUjjvjjTÞÞ, which involves two hash operations, denoted as
Ttable. Tconcat and Thash represent the overhead of concatenation hashing and the cost of the
hash operation, respectively. The speci ﬁc formulas are as follows:
TencðnÞ¼ a /C1 Mlength þ b (6)
Tlabel ¼ 2 /C1 Thash þ Tconcat: (7)
Next, the obfuscation query cost Tobfu and search token Ttoken are related to the addition of
d pseudo-labels. Here, the token construction time is reduced to a simple hash
calculation (other time costs can be ignored), and the overall search time is Tsearch.
Additionally, the gas consumption generated by contract deployment and execution is a
direct inﬂuence, but it can also be obtained through the difference in time between the start
and end of the timestamp. It is worth noting that each time cost Ti is measured multiple
times, and the average is taken for comparison with other schemes. The relevant formulas
are as follows:
TobfuðdÞ¼ d /C1 Ttoken (8)
Ttoken ¼ Thash þ Tother /C25 Thash (9)
Tsearch ¼ Ttoken þ TobfuðdÞ¼ð 1 þ dÞ/C1 Ttoken (10)
Ti avg ¼ 1
N
XN
i¼1
Ti: (11)
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 20/34

The above formula provides a theoretical estimate of the computational complexity of key
operations in the SENSH scheme. Detailed empirical evaluation results corresponding to
these calculations are presented in subsequent sections, clearly demonstrating the
efﬁciency of encryption, label generation, token generation, and search operations in actual
environments.
Gas cost
This scheme involves uploading data to the cloud and blockchain after off-chain
encryption and decryption, with the focus of this article being on the deployment of smart
contracts on the blockchain and the invocation and execution of the application binary
interface (ABI) code. These operations incur transaction costs, referred to as “gas” in the
context of Ethereum ( Park, Lee & Kim, 2023 ). Gas is a metric for the computational effort
required to execute an operation, with more complex operations demanding higher gas
consumption. Following the setup of Remix, Ganache, and MetaMask experimental
environments, the framework’s operational cost, precisely the gas fee for the access control
process, is assessed. The initial balance of all accounts is set to 100 Ether, and the gas price
is con ﬁgured as follows:
gasPrice ¼ 20,000,000,000wei ¼ 20Gwei: (12)
The transaction fee (gasFee) is calculated by the formula:
gasFeeðgasÞ¼ gasUsed /C2 gasPrice: (13)
The time estimation (ET) is calculated by the formula:
ETðsecondsÞ¼ gasUsed
BlockLimit /C2 BlockTime (14)
where gasUsed indicates the amount of gas consumed to execute the transaction,
BlockLimit indicates the maximum amount of gas usage a block can hold, and BlockTime is
Figure 7 Consumption of simulated experimental encryption/decryption and search processes.
Full-size DOI: 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166/ ﬁg-7
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 21/34

the average time per block. The following is a simulation applied to a smart medical health
management system, where the consumption of calling each function throughout the
execution is shown in Fig. 7.
Correctness analysis
Correctness analysis is essential to con ﬁrm that a program operates and performs
according to its design speci ﬁcations. It is critical, for instance, to verify the precision of
Bloom ﬁlters in identifying authorized users to prevent unauthorized access or data
exposure. At the same time, the correctness of obfuscated queries is integral to the ef ﬁcacy
of data privacy safeguards. Since schemas are executed on the blockchain and smart
contracts are not easily alterable post-deployment, correctness analysis bolsters con ﬁdence
in the contract ’s functionality. It ensures that authorizations, revocations, and search
operations function as intended, circumventing potential security vulnerabilities or
operational mishaps. This analysis not only underpins security assessments but also
afﬁrms the dependability of the contractual logic that security features rely upon. In the
forthcoming section, a comprehensive correctness analysis will be undertaken, addressing
three key dimensions: authorization management, data generation and storage, and event
logging.
Authorization management
User permissions are authenticated using a Bloom ﬁlter, with all sensitive operations
safeguarded by the onlyAuthorized modi ﬁer. The authorizeUser function adds authorized
users, recording their hashes in the authorizedUsersFilter. In revocation cases, the
revokeUser function eliminates the corresponding user hash and expunges it from the
authorizedAddresses array, ensuring the accuracy and traceability of the authorization
process. To verify its practical effectiveness, please refer to the accuracy of the Bloom ﬁlter
mentioned in the Permission mechanism subsection and the natural gas consumption
experiment results shown in Fig. 7.
Data generation and storage
The generateLabel function derives a unique hash label from the user-provided key K and
the data value, storing it alongside the encrypted data in the LEDD map and registering it
in the labelsFilter, ensuring uniqueness and veri ﬁability of the label. The content of a label,
including its encrypted value and timestamp, can be refreshed using the updateLabel
function. Before updating, the label in the labelsFilter is con ﬁrmed, and a LabelUpdated
event is triggered post-update, facilitating dynamic data management.
Event logging
Every instance of generation, authorization, update, and revocation initiates the
corresponding event—such as LabelGenerated or UserAuthorized —ensuring that all state
changes are immutably logged on the blockchain. This approach provides tamper-proof
record-keeping, essential for subsequent auditing and traceability.
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 22/34

Programmatic comparison
The proposed scheme designs an on-chain asymmetric searchable cryptographic model
combining Bloom ﬁlters and obfuscation techniques that can be compared with other
traditional schemes. Table 2 compares various aspects of the encryption algorithm,
blockchain platforms, consensus mechanisms, query mechanisms, permission
mechanisms, query ef ﬁciency, authentication, and search executors of the proposed
scheme and related schemes. It can be found that the proposed scheme in this article
achieves the synergistic optimization of security and ﬂexibility while ensuring high query
efﬁciency through the multi-level encryption algorithm, ef ﬁcient proof of authority (POA)
consensus mechanism, and keyword obfuscation privacy-enhanced querying technology,
and the comprehensive performance is signi ﬁcantly better than the existing schemes.
Computation cost comparison
The speci ﬁc computational costs of each parameter are shown in Table 3, while Table 4
compares the computational complexity of several schemes. It can be observed that the
scheme proposed in this article follows a strict encryption mechanism in terms of data
encryption and combines the signature and veri ﬁcation techniques, which effectively
guarantees the security and integrity of the data, while Li et al. (2021b) and Xiang & Zhao
(2022) have certain deﬁciencies in this aspect. In addition, Li et al. (2021b), Ali et al. (2022),
Xiang & Zhao (2022) , Liu et al. (2023) all perform a large number of transaction query
operations on the blockchain, which undoubtedly aggravates the computational burden on
the chain. In contrast, the scheme in this article utilizes Bloom ﬁlters to achieve a more
efﬁcient data search, which balances query speed and storage ef ﬁciency. It is worth noting
that this article’s scheme adopts a strict permission control and authentication mechanism,
so the communication overhead between entities is relatively high (10C), which is designed
to meet the needs of data interactivity and sharing. At the same time, the number of
transactions recorded on the chain is small (2Tr), which effectively reduces the
computational burden of the blockchain. In order to show the computational consumption
of each scheme more intuitively, Fig. 8 visualizes the relevant data.
Table 2 Comparison of different characterization schemes.
Scheme Li et al. (2021b) Ali et al. (2022) Xiang & Zhao (2022) Liu et al. (2023) Proposed scheme
Encryption algorithms 1 PEKS HE+GT-BSS ABSE ABE AES+PRE+ABSE
Blockchain platform Ethereum (public) Hyperledger (private) Hyperledger (private) Hyperledger (private) Ethereum (private)
Consensus mechanism POW PBFT PBFT/RAFT PBFT POA
Query mechanism Keyword Keyword Keyword Keyword Keyword+Obfuscated
Permission mechanism 2 ABAC PBAC ABAC ABAC ABAC+PBAC
Query efﬁciency High Medium Medium High High
Veriﬁcation executor TrueBit Blockchain Blockchain Blockchain Blockchain
Search executor 3 CSP Blockchain Blockchain Blockchain CSP
Note:
1 PEKS and ABSE refer to Public Key Based and Attribute Based Searchable Encryption respectively, HE refers to Homomorphic Encryption, PRE refers to Pr oxy
Re-Encryption, ABE refers to Attribute Based Encryption, AES refers to Symmetric Encryption Algorithm, and GT-BSS refers to Group Theory-based Bin ary Spring
Search.
2 The Permission Mechanism encompasses role-based, policy-based, and attribute-based access control.
3 The executors of veri ﬁcation and search include Blockchain and Cloud Service Providers (CSP).
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 23/34

Transaction throughput analysis
Figure 9 compares the trend of transaction throughput with the number of transactions for
the proposed scheme in this article under two consensus mechanisms, Proof of Authority
(POA) and Proof of Workload (POW) ( Chen, Nguyen & Sekiya, 2022 ). The results show
Table 3 Relevant parameters and calculation costs.
Parameter Interpretations Computation cost (ms)
E/D Encryption or decryption 0.03431
S Signature 0.08214
V Veri ﬁcation 0.02174
H Hash operation 0.00739
Q Transaction query 0.00252
F Blockchain ﬁlter 0.00328
C Communication –
Tr Blockchain transactions –
Table 4 Computational complexity statistics of schemes.
Scheme Computational complexity
Li et al. (2021b) 3E=D þ 3V þ 4H þ 3Q þ 7C þ 4Tr
Ali et al. (2022) 6E=D þ 1S þ 2V þ 5H þ 4Q þ 8C þ 6Tr
Xiang & Zhao (2022) 4E=D þ 2V þ 3H þ 2Q þ 8C þ 4Tr
Liu et al. (2023) 3E=D þ 2S þ 3V þ 3H þ 3Q þ 9C þ 3Tr
Proposed scheme 3E =D þ 2V þ 2H þ 1Q þ 1F þ 10C þ 2Tr
Figure 8 Comparison of computational costs per framework ( Li et al., 2021b ; Ali et al., 2022 ; Xiang
& Zhao, 2022 ; Liu et al., 2023 ). Full-size DOI: 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166/ ﬁg-8
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 24/34

that the transactions per second (TPS) of POA exhibits signi ﬁcant ﬂuctuation
characteristics in the process of incrementing the number of transactions from 0 to 500,
with the value oscillating frequently between 1,000 and 6,000, and the instantaneous peak
reaches more than six times of POW. This feature re ﬂects the fact that POA relies on the
mechanism of pre-authorized authentication nodes to quickly exit blocks and has
signiﬁcant high throughput potential under speci ﬁc network conditions. In contrast,
POW’s TPS is always stable below 1,000, showing a smooth linear growth trend, and its
stability stems from the latency constraint inherent in the mining competition mechanism
in POW. The results further verify that the scheme proposed in this article can effectively
reduce the burden of on-chain computation under the POA consensus mechanism and
improve the throughput performance of the system in large-scale transaction scenarios
while ensuring the security and integrity of data. This provides a feasible engineering
paradigm for application scenarios with high real-time requirements, such as medical data
sharing and cross-border payment, under the environment of the coalition chain.
Comparison of average time consumption of algorithms
Figure 10 shows the comparison of the average execution time of four algorithms with
different numbers of attributes, including data encryption, label generation, token
generation, and search algorithm. It can be found that the proposed scheme shows
superior performance in all four test projects. The time cost of each algorithm is calculated
by the timestamps in the smart contract; speci ﬁcally, the execution time of the algorithm is
determined by measuring the difference between the start and end timestamps of the
transaction. As shown in Fig. 10A, in the data encryption part, the execution time growth
trend of the proposed scheme with the increase of the number of attributes is signi ﬁcantly
Figure 9 Transaction throughput under POA consensus mechanism.
Full-size DOI: 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166/ ﬁg-9
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 25/34

slower than that of Xiang & Zhao (2022) , and the advantage is more signi ﬁcant especially
when the number of attributes is large; it can be found from Fig. 10B that, for the table
generation, the proposed scheme always maintains the execution time lower than that of
Liu et al. (2023) , which shows high ef ﬁciency; for the token generation, Fig. 10C, despite
the optimal performance of Xiang & Zhao (2022) , the functionality of this scheme is
relatively homogeneous, and the proposed scheme strikes a better balance between
functional completeness and execution ef ﬁciency, and signi ﬁcantly outperforms
Liu et al. (2023) ; lastly, for Fig. 10D, the proposed scheme is close to Xiang & Zhao (2022)
in terms of search operations for small-scale attribute scenarios and consistently
Figure 10 Comparison of average execution time of (A) data encryption, (B) label generation, (C) token generation, (D) search algorithm
(Xiang & Zhao, 2022 ; Liu et al., 2023 ). Full-size DOI: 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166/ ﬁg-10
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 26/34

stays lower than ( Liu et al., 2023 ) when the number of attributes increases in the
execution time, demonstrating strong stability and ef ﬁciency. In summary, the
proposed scheme has obvious performance advantages in various aspects, especially
when the number of attributes is large, and its execution ef ﬁciency advantage is more
prominent.
Security analysis
Conducting a thorough security analysis is essential for a blockchain-based asymmetric
searchable encryption system ( Latif et al., 2021 ). In the SENSH framework, the on-chain
Bloom ﬁlter-based authorization mechanism is used to ensure that only authorized users
can access and modify encrypted medical data, while preventing unauthorized access
effectively. The obfuscation factor introduced into the searchable encryption process has
been designed and implemented to safeguard the privacy of user queries by masking access
patterns and preventing leakage of sensitive keywords. To further ensure robustness,
SENSH addresses common attack vectors including replay attacks ( Zhang et al., 2020 ),
unauthorized access, and side-channel attacks ( Spreitzer et al., 2018 ), through explicit
preventive mechanisms integrated in smart contracts. Speci ﬁcally, the system employs
transaction timestamping and identity veri ﬁcation to prevent replay, and ﬁlters
unauthorized access requests via the Bloom ﬁlter before transaction execution. While
formal simulation of side-channel attacks is beyond the current scope, the system avoids
unnecessary leakage by limiting observable patterns on-chain. The defenses proposed in
this article, such as employing Bloom ﬁlters to counter replay attacks and obfuscating
search results to prevent pattern leakage, have been implemented and deployed on a
private Ethereum testbed to evaluate their effectiveness in realistic settings, verifying their
practical feasibility and robustness. Consequently, the system ’s security has been analyzed
from ﬁve critical perspectives: permission mechanisms, privacy protection, defense against
tampering, resistance to replay attacks, and resistance to DDoS attacks.
Permission mechanism
Assuming that there are m positions and k hash functions, the probability of misjudgment
P of the Bloom ﬁlter can be expressed as:
P ¼ 1 /C0 1 /C0 1
m
/C18/C19 kn ! k
: (15)
This misclassiﬁcation probability is adjustable and is usually reduced by increasing m and
adjusting k. Suppose an M_U tries to bypass the Bloom ﬁlter and access unauthorized data.
Since Bloom ﬁlters are inherently irreversible, if the Bloom ﬁlter does not return a “may
exist” result, the malicious user cannot access the data. Even if the malicious user tries to
“guess” whether the data exists multiple times, he or she cannot obtain useful information
through the Bloom ﬁlter. Therefore, Bloom ﬁlters are effective in preventing unauthorized
access. The SENSH scheme ef ﬁciently veri ﬁes user permissions using a Bloom ﬁlter.
Experimental results show that even when the number of entries reaches 50,000, the false
positive rate of the Bloom ﬁlter remains below 0.15%, ensuring high authorization
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 27/34

accuracy. Additionally, Fig. 7 indicates that authorization-related functions in SENSH
consume an average of approximately 30% of gas, re ﬂecting lower on-chain costs.
Privacy protection
The SENSH scheme ensures data con ﬁdentiality and query non-linkability through
AES-based encryption and search token generation. In particular, sensitive health data is
encrypted off-chain before being sent to the blockchain, and search tokens are generated
through a combination of hashes of tags, versions, and other parameters, effectively
preventing the leakage of sensitive information. As shown in Figs. 10A–10C, the execution
time for data encryption, label generation, and token generation is signi ﬁcantly lower than
other schemes, indicating that privacy protection operations are lightweight and suitable
for real-time medical applications. Additionally, Fig. 7 demonstrates the end-to-end
performance advantage of encrypted search operations in terms of gas consumption, while
Table 4 conﬁrms that the cryptographic operations involved ( i.e., symmetric encryption
and hashing) have acceptable computational complexity. These results con ﬁrm that
SENSH achieves strong privacy protection while incurring only minimal performance
overhead.
Anti-tampering
One of the de ﬁning attributes of blockchain technology is its tamper-evident nature
(Moore et al., 2023 ). Each block is linked to its predecessor through the inclusion of the
previous block’s hash, making any attempt at tampering evident as it would alter the hash
values of all subsequent blocks. Additionally, Bloom ﬁlters exhibit an “insert-only”
characteristic: once an element is added to a Bloom ﬁlter, it remains there permanently,
precluding subsequent deletions. This design guarantees that once authorization records
or encrypted labels are written to the chain, they cannot be modi ﬁed or removed.
Furthermore, our system leverages the blockchain ’s immutable ledger, and this behavior
is observable in deployment logs, where any unauthorized attempt to modify stored
records is rejected or results in a new appended transaction rather than overwriting the
existing one.
Anti-replay attacks
Each authorized user is authenticated by its hash identity. Assume that user U
interacts with the system by generating a unique identi ﬁer HðUÞ through a hash function
H. The hash function H generates a unique identi ﬁer HðUÞ for each user. An attacker
cannot do this by replaying the sent requests because each request is timestamped or
randomized with a random number N, making each request unique. In addition,
timestamps T and user hash identi ﬁers HðUÞ are used in generating labels to prevent
duplicate requests with the same content from being submitted. Any duplicate request is
recognized and rejected because of different timestamps or unique identi ﬁers. This
mechanism has been validated in system testing, where duplicate queries with the same
content but different timestamps are treated as independent requests, and attempts to
reuse old requests are successfully identi ﬁed and rejected by the contract logic. These
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 28/34

behaviors conﬁrm that SENSH can effectively defend against replay attacks in real-world
applications.
During testing, we simulated multiple transactions where the attacker attempted to
resend previously used requests. The system accurately detected duplicate tags or tokens
and rejected these transactions. This validation was achieved through contract-level tag
uniqueness checks and time randomization, ensuring that previously submitted queries
cannot be reused. These behaviors con ﬁrm SENSH’s effectiveness against replay attacks in
actual deployment environments.
Anti-DDOS attack
In this article, the scheme takes comprehensive defense measures from various aspects,
such as request screening, cost control, and query obfuscation, to ensure the stability and
availability of the system during the surge of malicious traf ﬁc. First, the introduction of
Bloom ﬁlters for fast screening before data queries on the chain can effectively intercept
forged requests or duplicate queries, avoiding the consumption of resources on the chain
by invalid requests, thus alleviating the system load. Second, the scheme utilizes the
blockchain’s inherent gas fee mechanism, and the cost per transaction constraint
signiﬁcantly increases the economic cost for attackers to launch invalid requests on a large
scale, further reducing the feasibility of DDoS attacks ( Tushir et al., 2021 ). At the same
time, the scheme introduces an obfuscation factor into the query results to disrupt the
attacker’s speculation on the access pattern of the data on the chain, avoiding the
implementation of more targeted attacks through traf ﬁc analysis. The above mechanisms
work in conjunction with each other to enhance the system ’s ability to resist DDoS attacks.
These mechanisms demonstrate through experimental results that forged or duplicate
requests are rejected before consuming signiﬁcant amounts of gas, while query obfuscation
techniques prevent pattern-based inference.
In testing, we simulated transactions by sending a large number of invalid or duplicate
queries. The results showed that the Bloom ﬁlter effectively ﬁltered over 95% of duplicate
or unauthorized requests before they reached resource-intensive on-chain operations,
thereby saving gas and maintaining system responsiveness. As shown in Fig. 9, SENSH
maintains stable transaction throughput under POA consensus, even under simulated
stress, indicating its ability to withstand high-traf ﬁc query loads. Additionally, the
gas-based cost model further demonstrates the effectiveness of this solution in defending
against DDoS attacks by signi ﬁcantly increasing the economic cost of initiating large-scale
invalid requests.
CONCLUSION
This article introduces the SENSH scheme, an intelligent medical health management
system integrating security, privacy protection, and ef ﬁcient querying capabilities through
consortium blockchain and searchable encryption technologies. In conventional
healthcare settings, there is a heightened risk of exposure to sensitive data and signi ﬁcant
challenges in sharing and retrieving health data. To tackle these issues, we have crafted a
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 29/34

system framework that employs Bloom ﬁlters for authorization management, allowing
authorized users to conduct ef ﬁcient queries on large-scale datasets without impacting
storage utilization. AES symmetric encryption safeguards the data off-chain, while the
ciphertext minimizes the risk of data leakage through an on-chain storage management
mechanism. The system is also out ﬁtted with an event-triggering mechanism and logging
function, facilitating real-time monitoring and traceability to meet stringent audit
compliance standards. The solution accommodates the dynamic updates characteristic of
medical data by incorporating version control and timestamp functionalities. The solution
incorporates an obfuscation factor to enhance query security further and prevent attackers
from deducing the original data content through labels. It supports the dynamic updating
of data labels to ﬁt varying access contexts.
In the experimental part, we evaluated the key performance indicators of the system and
veriﬁed its effectiveness in terms of authorization management, data generation, and
storage. We also investigated security issues, examining several aspects of the authorization
mechanism, anti-tampering, anti-replay, and anti-DDoS attacks. Through comparative
analysis with other schemes, we determined that while the SENSH framework does involve
multiple blockchain interactions, it consumes less gas overall, reduces the average
execution time per operation, and in terms of consensus mechanisms, the POA consensus
mechanism in this article performs better in terms of throughput performance and is more
relevant to healthcare application scenarios.
However, there is still room for further optimization in this research. First, the
experimental tests were conducted in a controlled local blockchain environment, which is
sufﬁcient to validate the core mechanisms of the prototype system but cannot fully
simulate complex scenarios such as dynamic network topology changes, node
heterogeneity, and complex interference in real-world deployments. Second, the current
solution primarily implements basic query functions, and there is room for
improvement in supporting complex query scenarios (such as multi-keyword
combinations and Boolean logic operations). Third, the study primarily validated the
solution in a medical scenario, and its adaptability and performance in other ﬁelds such as
industrial IoT and social IoT can also be systematically tested and expanded. To address
these issues, future research will focus on three directions: ﬁrst, expanding the
experimental scenarios by introducing cross-domain network deployment environments
to simulate dynamic interference factors in real-world applications, and covering
multi-scenario testing such as industrial IoT device interconnection and social IoT data
interaction; second, optimizing the query processing module to enhance the ability to
parse and execute complex query expressions; Third, perform targeted adjustments and
optimizations based on the characteristics of different scenarios. Ultimately, these efforts
will comprehensively enhance SENSH ’s scalability, security, and adaptability in medical
data sharing and multi-domain expansion scenarios, while exploring multi-layer storage
structure designs to ensure the system meets privacy protection requirements while
achieving higher scalability and query ef ﬁciency, thereby enhancing its adaptability to
various medical environments.
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 30/34

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND DECLARATIONS
Funding
The authors received no funding for this work.
Competing Interests
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Author Contributions
. Song Luo conceived and designed the experiments, analyzed the data, authored or
reviewed drafts of the article, and approved the ﬁnal draft.
. Lihuan Tan conceived and designed the experiments, performed the experiments,
performed the computation work, authored or reviewed drafts of the article, and
approved the ﬁnal draft.
. Tan Hu performed the experiments, performed the computation work, prepared ﬁgures
and/or tables, and approved the ﬁnal draft.
. Maoshuang Hu analyzed the data, prepared ﬁgures and/or tables, and approved the ﬁnal
draft.
Data Availability
The following information was supplied regarding data availability:
The code is available in the Supplemental File .
Supplemental Information
Supplemental information for this article can be found online at http://dx.doi.org/10.7717/
peerj-cs.3166#supplemental-information.
REFERENCES
Ali A, Almaiah MA, Hajjej F, Pasha MF, Fang OH, Khan R, Teo J, Zakarya M. 2022. An
industrial IoT-based blockchain-enabled secure searchable encryption approach for healthcare
systems using neural network. Sensors 22(2):572 DOI 10.3390/s22020572 .
Azaria A, Ekblaw A, Vieira T, Lippman A. 2016. MedRec: using blockchain for medical data
access and permission management. In: Awan I, Younas M, eds. 2nd International Conference
on Open and Big Data, OBD 2016, Vienna, Austria, August 22 –24, 2016 . Piscataway: IEEE
Computer Society, 25 –30.
Bao Y, Qiu W, Cheng X. 2022. Secure and lightweight ﬁne-grained searchable data sharing for
IoT-oriented and cloud-assisted smart healthcare system. IEEE Internet of Things Journal
9(4):2513–2526 DOI 10.1109/jiot.2021.3063846 .
Boneh D, Crescenzo GD, Ostrovsky R, Persiano G. 2004. Public key encryption with keyword
search. In: Advances in Cryptology—EUROCRYPT 2004: International Conference on the Theory
and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques. Proceedings 23, Interlaken, Switzerland: Springer,
506–522.
Chase M, Kamara S. 2010. Structured encryption and controlled disclosure. In: Abe M, ed.
Advances in Cryptology —ASIACRYPT 2010 —16th International Conference on the Theory and
Application of Cryptology and Information Security, Singapore, December 5 –9, 2010. Proceedings,
Volume 6477 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science . Cham: Springer, 577 –594.
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 31/34

Chen L, Lee W, Chang C, Choo KR, Zhang N. 2019. Blockchain based searchable encryption for
electronic health record sharing. Future Generation Computer Systems 95(3):420–429
DOI 10.1016/j.future.2019.01.018 .
Chen X, Nguyen K, Sekiya H. 2022. On the latency performance in private blockchain networks.
IEEE Internet of Things Journal 9(19):19246–19259 DOI 10.1109/jiot.2022.3165666 .
Curtmola R, Garay JA, Kamara S, Ostrovsky R. 2006. Searchable symmetric encryption:
improved deﬁnitions and efﬁcient constructions. In: Juels A, Wright RN, di Vimercati SDC, eds.
Proceedings of the 13th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, CCS 2006,
Alexandria, VA, USA, October 30 –November 3, 2006 . New York: ACM, 79 –88.
Dasgupta S, Sheehan T, Stevens CF, Navlakha S. 2018. A neural data structure for novelty
detection. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
115(51):13093–13098 DOI 10.1073/pnas.1814448115 .
Geravand S, Ahmadi M. 2013. Bloom ﬁlter applications in network security: a state-of-the-art
survey. Computer Networks 57(18):4047–4064 DOI 10.1016/j.comnet.2013.09.003 .
Guan G, Mofaz M, Qian G, Patalon T, Shmueli E, Yamin D, Brandeau ML. 2022. Higher
sensitivity monitoring of reactions to COVID-19 vaccination using smartwatches. npj Digital
Medicine 5(1):255 DOI 10.1038/s41746-022-00683-w .
Jiang P, Qiu B, Zhu L, Gai K. 2021. SearchBC: a blockchain-based PEKS framework for IoT
services. IEEE Internet of Things Journal 8(6):5031–5044 DOI 10.1109/jiot.2020.3036705 .
Kamara S, Papamanthou C. 2013. Parallel and dynamic searchable symmetric encryption.
In: Sadeghi A, ed. Financial Cryptography and Data Security —17th International Conference, FC
2013, Okinawa, Japan, April 1 –5, 2013, Revised Selected Papers, Volume 7859 of Lecture Notes in
Computer Science . Cham: Springer, 258 –274.
Latif S, Idrees Z, Ahmad J, Zheng L, Zou Z. 2021. A blockchain-based architecture for secure and
trustworthy operations in the industrial internet of things. Journal of Industrial Information
Integration 21(1):100190 DOI 10.1016/j.jii.2020.100190 .
Li C, Dong M, Li J, Xu G, Chen X, Ota K. 2021a. Healthchain: secure EMRSs management and
trading in distributed healthcare service system. IEEE Internet of Things Journal 8(9):7192–7202
DOI 10.1109/jiot.2020.3038721 .
Li Z, Kang J, Yu R, Ye D, Deng Q, Zhang Y. 2018. Consortium blockchain for secure energy
trading in industrial internet of things. IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics
14(8):3690–3700 DOI 10.1109/tii.2017.2786307 .
Li Z, Ma J, Miao Y, Wang X, Li J, Xu C. 2024. Enabling ef ﬁcient privacy-preserving
spatiotemporal location-based services for smart cities. IEEE Internet of Things Journal
11(3):5288–5300 DOI 10.1109/jiot.2023.3305605 .
Li H, Wang T, Qiao Z, Yang B, Gong Y, Wang J, Qiu G. 2021b. Blockchain-based searchable
encryption with ef ﬁcient result veri ﬁcation and fair payment. Journal of Information Security
and Applications 58(1):102791 DOI 10.1016/j.jisa.2021.102791 .
Liu S, Chen L, Wu G, Wang H, Yu H. 2023. Blockchain-backed searchable proxy signcryption for
cloud personal health records. IEEE Transactions on Services Computing 16(5):3210–3223
DOI 10.1109/tsc.2023.3272770 .
Liu J, Li Y, Sun R, Pei Q, Zhang N, Dong M, Leung VCM. 2022. EMK-ABSE: ef ﬁcient
multikeyword attribute-based searchable encryption scheme through cloud-edge coordination.
IEEE Internet of Things Journal 9(19):18650–18662 DOI 10.1109/jiot.2022.3163340 .
Liu S, Yu J, Xiao Y, Wan Z, Wang S, Yan B. 2020. BC-SABE: blockchain-aided searchable
attribute-based encryption for cloud-IoT. IEEE Internet of Things Journal 7(9):7851–7867
DOI 10.1109/jiot.2020.2993231 .
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 32/34

Mamta, Gupta BB, Li K, Leung VCM, Psannis KE, Yamaguchi S. 2021. Blockchain-assisted
secure ﬁne-grained searchable encryption for a cloud-based healthcare cyber-physical system.
IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica 8(12):1877–1890 DOI 10.1109/jas.2021.1004003 .
Miao Y, Deng RH, Liu X, Choo KR, Wu H, Li H. 2021. Multi-authority attribute-based keyword
search over encrypted cloud data. IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing
18(4):1667–1680 DOI 10.1109/tdsc.2019.2935044 .
Moore E, Imteaj A, Rezapour S, Amini MH. 2023. A survey on secure and private federated
learning using blockchain: theory and application in resource-constrained computing. IEEE
Internet of Things Journal 10(24):21942–21958 DOI 10.1109/jiot.2023.3313055 .
Nguyen DC, Pathirana PN, Ding M, Seneviratne A. 2019. Blockchain for secure EHRs sharing of
mobile cloud based e-health systems. IEEE Access 7:66792–66806
DOI 10.1109/access.2019.2917555 .
Niu J, Li X, Gao J, Han Y. 2020. Blockchain-based anti-key-leakage key aggregation searchable
encryption for IoT. IEEE Internet of Things Journal 7(2):1502–1518
DOI 10.1109/jiot.2019.2956322 .
Park SJ, Lee J, Kim H. 2023. Efﬁcient computation of ﬂoading for ethereum DApps. Journal of
Industrial Information Integration 31:100411 DOI 10.1016/j.jii.2022.100411 .
Qu Z, Meng Y, Liu B, Muhammad G, Tiwari P. 2024. QB-IMD: a secure medical data processing
system with privacy protection based on quantum blockchain for IoMT. IEEE Internet of Things
Journal 11(1):40–49 DOI 10.1109/jiot.2023.3285388 .
Saif S, Mondal N, Biswas S. 2023. Secure electronic health record storage and retrieval using
blockchain and encryption for healthcare application. SN Computer Science 4(3):300
DOI 10.1007/s42979-023-01723-2 .
Shen X, Xu C, Zhu L, Lu R, Guan Y, Zhang X. 2024. Blockchain-based lightweight and
privacy-preserving quality assurance framework in crowdsensing systems. IEEE Internet of
Things Journal 11(1):974–986 DOI 10.1109/jiot.2023.3288349 .
Spreitzer R, Moonsamy V, Korak T, Mangard S. 2018. Systematic classi ﬁcation of side-channel
attacks: a case study for mobile devices. IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials
20(1):465–488 DOI 10.1109/comst.2017.2779824 .
Tang H, Sun QT, Yang X, Long K. 2018. A network coding and DES based dynamic encryption
scheme for moving target defense. IEEE Access 6:26059–26068
DOI 10.1109/access.2018.2832854 .
Tian W, Liu Q, Li R, Xu Z, Zhang Y, Huang Y. 2023. A blockchain-based secure searching
strategy for metadata in mobile edge computing. IEEE Internet of Things Journal
10(22):19795–19809 DOI 10.1109/jiot.2023.3282043 .
Tushir B, Dalal Y, Dezfouli B, Liu Y. 2021. A quantitative study of DDoS and E-DDoS attacks on
WiFi smart home devices. IEEE Internet of Things Journal 8(8):6282–6292
DOI 10.1109/jiot.2020.3026023 .
Usman M, Jan MA, He X. 2017. Cryptography-based secure data storage and sharing using HEVC
and public clouds. Information Sciences 387(3):90–102 DOI 10.1016/j.ins.2016.08.059 .
Wang H, Fan K, Zhang K, Wang Z, Li H, Yang Y. 2022. Secure and ef ﬁcient data-privacy-
preserving scheme for mobile cyber-physical systems. IEEE Internet of Things Journal
9(22):22375–22388 DOI 10.1109/jiot.2021.3081456 .
Wu H, Düdder B, Wang L, Cao Z, Zhou J, Feng X. 2024. Survey on secure keyword search over
outsourced data: from cloud to blockchain-assisted architecture. ACM Computing Surveys
56(3):63:1–63:40 DOI 10.1145/3617824 .
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 33/34

Wu T, Wang W, Zhang C, Zhang W, Zhu L, Gai K, Wang H. 2023. Blockchain-based anonymous
data sharing with accountability for internet of things. IEEE Internet of Things Journal
10(15):5461–5475 DOI 10.1109/jiot.2022.3222453 .
Xia Q, Sifah EB, Asamoah KO, Gao J, Du X, Guizani M. 2017. MeDShare: trust-less medical data
sharing among cloud service providers via blockchain. IEEE Access 5:14757–14767
DOI 10.1109/access.2017.2730843 .
Xiang X, Zhao X. 2022. Blockchain-assisted searchable attribute-based encryption for e-health
systems. Journal of Systems Architecture 124(6):102417 DOI 10.1016/j.sysarc.2022.102417 .
Xu P, He S, Wang W, Susilo W, Jin H. 2018. Lightweight searchable public-key encryption for
cloud-assisted wireless sensor networks. IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics
14(8):3712–3723 DOI 10.1109/tii.2017.2784395 .
Yang X, Lu R, Shao J, Tang X, Yang H. 2019. An ef ﬁcient and privacy-preserving disease risk
prediction scheme for E-Healthcare. IEEE Internet of Things Journal 6(2):3284–3297
DOI 10.1109/jiot.2018.2882224 .
Yue X, Wang H, Jin D, Li M, Jiang W. 2016. Healthcare data gateways: found healthcare
intelligence on blockchain with novel privacy risk control. Journal of Medical Systems
40(10):218:1–218:8 DOI 10.1007/s10916-016-0574-6 .
Zhang P, Liu J, Shen Y, Li H, Jiang X. 2020. Lightweight tag-based PHY-layer authentication for
IoT devices in smart cities. IEEE Internet of Things Journal 7(5):3977–3990
DOI 10.1109/jiot.2019.2958079 .
Zhang C, Luo X, Liang J, Liu X, Zhu L, Guo S. 2024. POTA: privacy-preserving online multi-task
assignment with path planning. IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing 23(5):5999–6011
DOI 10.1109/tmc.2023.3315324 .
Zhou Y, Cao Z, Dong X, Zhou J. 2023. BLDSS: a blockchain-based lightweight searchable data
sharing scheme in vehicular social networks. IEEE Internet of Things Journal 10(9):7974–7992
DOI 10.1109/jiot.2022.3230833 .
Luo et al. (2025), PeerJ Comput. Sci. , DOI 10.7717/peerj-cs.3166 34/34